*Journal Article
Title	Abstract	Year	Author	Journal	DOI
Failed Vacuum And The Long-Term Neurological Impact On The Offspring	Objective The objective of this study was to investigate the association between failed vacuum procedures and long-term pediatric neurological morbidity of the offspring (up to the age of 18 years). Study Design We performed a population-based cohort study to assess the risk of long-term neurological morbidity, including children who were born following either a successful operative vaginal delivery or a failed procedure leading to an emergency cesarean delivery. Results A total of 7,978 neonates underwent operative vaginal delivery during the study period, meeting the inclusion criteria. The procedure resulted in a successful vaginal delivery in 7,733 (96.9%) cases, while it failed in 245 (3.1%). Total neurological morbidity was comparable between the study groups (3.0 vs. 3.3%, p = 0.8). The Kaplan-Meier survival curve exhibited no difference in the cumulative incidence of total neurological morbidity (log rank, p = 0.967). In the Cox's regression model, a failed vacuum delivery was not associated with an increased long-term neurological morbidity, as compared with a successful procedure, after adjusting for confounders (adjusted hazard ratio: 1.04, 95% confidence interval: 0.5-2.1, p = 0.922). Conclusion A failed vacuum delivery does not appear to be associated with an increased risk for neurological morbidity of the offspring studied up to 18 years following the event.	2017	Mastrolia, Salvatore, Andrea;Wainstock, Tamar;Sheiner, Eyal;Landau, Daniella;Sergienko, Ruslan;Walfisch, Asnat	American Journal of Perinatology	10.1055/s-0037-1603507
Art Outcome After Euploid Frozen Embryo Transfer Is Not Affected By Previous Cesarean Section Delivery In The Absence Of Intracavitary Fluid	PURPOSE: To evaluate the impact of a cesarean section (CS) on the chance of clinical pregnancy and live birth (LB) in frozen embryo transfer (FET) cycles in the setting of euploid embryos and the absence of intracavitary fluid (ICF) as causes of implantation failure were excluded.;METHODS: Retrospective study, including patients with at least one previous CS or at least one previous vaginal delivery, who underwent a euploid FET cycle.;RESULTS: A total of 412 euploid embryo transfer cycles had been included. Patients' mean age was 34.5 years and 42.48% of patients have had at least one previous CS. A clinical pregnancy was seen in 69.42% and 60.19% of the patients had a LB. Positive pregnancy test, clinical pregnancy, and LB rate were not significantly different between the groups without/with a history of a previous CS (p = 0.6/0.45/0.94, respectively). LB rate was significantly reduced by the presence of mucus on the ET catheter (OR: 0.413; p = 0.010), the BMI (OR: 0.946; p = 0.006), the combined embryo quality (embryo quality fair: OR: 0.444; p = 0.001; embryo quality low: OR: 0.062; p < 0.001), and by the HRT endometrial preparation approach (OR: 0.609; p = 0.023).;CONCLUSION: The possible negative impact of a CS can be overcome when a euploid FET after exclusion of ICF is performed. Copyright © 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.	2022	Bayram, A;Elkhatib, I;Abdala, A;Nogueira, D;Melado, L;Fatemi, HM;Lawrenz, B	Journal of Assisted Reproduction & Genetics	10.1007/s10815-022-02627-5
Contribution Of Gut Bacteria To Arsenic Metabolism In The First Year Of Life In A Prospective Birth Cohort	Gut bacteria are at the interface of environmental exposures and their impact on human systems, and may alter host absorption, metabolism, and excretion of toxic chemicals. We investigated whether arsenic-metabolizing bacterial gene pathways related to urinary arsenic concentrations. In the New Hampshire Birth Cohort Study, urine and stool samples were obtained at six weeks (n = 186) and one year (n = 190) of age. Inorganic arsenic (iAs), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA), dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), and arsenobetaine (AsB) were quantified in infant urine samples using high-performance liquid chromatography with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. Total arsenic exposure (tAs) was summarized as SIGMA(iAs, MMA, DMA) and log2-transformed. Fecal microbial DNA underwent metagenomic sequencing and the relative abundance of bacterial gene pathways were grouped as KEGG Orthologies (KOs) using BioBakery algorithms. Arsenic metabolism KOs with >80% prevalence were log2-transformed and modeled continuously using linear regression, those with <10% were not evaluated and those with 10-80% prevalence were analyzed dichotomously (detect/non-detect) using logistic regression. In the first set of models, tAs was regressed against KO relative abundance or detection adjusting for age at sample collection and child's sex. Effect modification by delivery mode was assessed in stratified models. In the second set of models, the association between the relative abundance/detection of the KOs and arsenic speciation (%iAs, %MMA, %DMA) was quantified with linear regression. Urinary tAs was associated with the increased relative abundance/detection odds of several arsenic-related KOs, including K16509, an arsenate reductase transcriptional regulator, with stronger associations among six-week-olds than one-year-olds. K16509 was also associated with decreased %MMA and increased %DMA at six weeks and one year. Notably, many associations were stronger among operatively-delivered than vaginally-delivered infants. Our findings suggest associations between arsenic-metabolizing bacteria in the infant gut microbiome and urinary arsenic excretion. Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2022	Laue, HE;Moroishi, Y;Palys, TJ;Jackson, BP;Madan, JC;Karagas, MR	Environmental Research	10.1016/j.envres.2022.114099
Abdominal Wall Endometriosis: Experience Of The General Surgery Service Of The Antonio Pedro University Hospital Of The Universidade Federal Fluminense	OBJECTIVE: to study the characteristics of women undergoing abdominal surgery with suspected abdominal wall endometriosis or abdominal wall tumor, and to assess the association with age, race and previous cesarean delivery.;METHOD: retrospective and analytical study carried out from January 2000 to December 2019, at the General Surgery Service of Hospital Universitario Antonio Pedro (HUAP) at Universidade Federal Fluminense (UFF). Medical records of 100 patients with abdominal wall endometriosis and other types of abdominal wall tumors were analyzed. Age, color, previous history of cesarean section or abdominal surgery and histopathological data were verified. The patients were classified as young adults (aged between 18 and 28 years and 11 months) and adults. The SPSS program was used for data analysis, Fisher's test with a significance level of 0.05.;RESULTS: abdominal wall endometriosis with histopathological confirmation was found in 22%, the mean age was 52.28 +/- 18.66 which was lower when compared to other diagnoses. There was an association between previous cesarean section and abdominal wall endometriosis (p <0.005).;CONCLUSION: the women with a diagnosis of abdominal wall endometriosis had undergone previous cesareans (the majority) and were in an active reproductive age. Although the brown skin women were the most frequent, there was no statistical difference.	2020	Costa, JEFR;Accetta, I;Maia, FJS;SA, RAM	Revista do Colegio Brasileiro de Cirurgioes	10.1590/0100-6991e-20202544
Breastfeeding: A Key Modulator Of Gut Microbiota Characteristics In Late Infancy	The objective of this study was to investigate the impact of the most commonly cited factors that may have influenced infants' gut microbiota profiles at one year of age: mode of delivery, breastfeeding duration and antibiotic exposure. Barcoded V3/V4 amplicons of bacterial 16S-rRNA gene were prepared from the stool samples of 52 healthy 1-year-old Australian children and sequenced using the Illumina MiSeq platform. Following the quality checks, the data were processed using the Quantitative Insights Into Microbial Ecology pipeline and analysed using the Calypso package for microbiome data analysis. The stool microbiota profiles of children still breastfed were significantly different from that of children weaned earlier (P<0.05), independent of the age of solid food introduction. Among children still breastfed, Veillonella spp. abundance was higher. Children no longer breastfed possessed a more 'mature' microbiota, with notable increases of Firmicutes. The microbiota profiles of the children could not be differentiated by delivery mode or antibiotic exposure. Further analysis based on children's feeding patterns found children who were breastfed alongside solid food had significantly different microbiota profiles compared to that of children who were receiving both breastmilk and formula milk alongside solid food. This study provided evidence that breastfeeding continues to influence gut microbial community even at late infancy when these children are also consuming table foods. At this age, any impacts from mode of delivery or antibiotic exposure did not appear to be discernible imprints on the microbial community profiles of these healthy children.	2019	Matsuyama, M;Gomez-Arango, LF;Fukuma, NM;Morrison, M;Davies, PSW;Hill, RJ	Journal of Developmental Origins of Health and Disease	10.1017/S2040174418000624
Nasal Septal Deformity In Relation To The Mode Of Delivery	OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to find the relation between mode of delivery and the types of septal deviation.;MATERIALS AND METHODS: Records of patients treated for a deviated nasal septum from March 2003 to October 2015 were reviewed. Those with previous facial trauma were excluded. Information retrieved included basic demographic data, mode of delivery, sibling birthing order, type and date of surgery, and postoperational outcomes.;RESULTS: A total of 130 records were recovered. According to Guyuron's classification of nasal septal deviation, we found that type 5 was the most common type for patients delivered normally, whereas type 2 was the most common type for those who were delivered by cesarean section.;CONCLUSION: Mode of delivery may be related to a certain type of deviation. However, studies with larger samples are required to support the finding in our study.	2017	Alharethy, S;Al-Amro, M;Al-Angari, S	Journal of Craniofacial Surgery	10.1097/SCS.0000000000003802
Effects Of Prenatal And Perinatal Factors On Nephrotic Syndrome Outcome	Background: Nephrotic syndrome is a condition which can be influenced by pregnancy conditions. Objective(s): Based on this, aim of this study was evaluation of perinatal and prenatal indices in nephrotic syndrome. Method(s): A case control study was done in 100 children with nephrotic syndrome. Perinatal and prenatal data were obtained, and for patients' outcome determination, they had taken prednisolone for 4 weeks and syndrome types were determined based on responses to drugs as steroid responsive, steroid resistant, frequent relapse, and steroids dependent. At the end, information was entered into SPSS and analyzed. Result(s): Remission type children had a better outcome (No: 25) compared to others (No: 75) have a better status in prenatal and perinatal factors (P < 0.05). Gestational age (P value = 0.387), delivery type, diabetic nephropathy (P value = 0.007), passive smoking and neonatal jaundice have significant differences in groups. Conclusion(s): Some of these factors have a significant effect in nephrotic syndrome outcomes that evaluated in this study.Copyright © 2019, Author(s).	2019	Yousefichaijan, P.;Tayebi, S.;Rezagholizamenjany, M.	Nephro-Urology Monthly	10.5812/numonthly.87717
Risk Factors Of Deficit And Non-Deficit Schizophrenia: Results From A Cross-Sectional Study; [Factores De Riesgo Para La Esquizofrenia Deficitaria Y No Deficitaria: Resultados De Un Estudio Transversal]	Aim: It has been observed that deficit and non-deficit schizophrenia (SCZ-D and SCZ-ND) might be characterized by different risk factors. Therefore, the present study aimed to assess as to whether previously reported risk factors of schizophrenia are specifically associated with SCZ-D and SCZ-ND. Method: This study was based on a cohort of 118 stable outpatients with schizophrenia. A diagnosis of SCZ-D was established using the Schedule for the Deficit Syndrome (SDS). Risk factors were recorded using structured interview, the Operational Criteria for Psychotic Illness (OPCRIT) checklist and the Traumatic Experience Checklist (TEC). The following risk factors were explored: male sex, a history of schizophrenia in first-degree relatives, seasonality of birth, birth weight <3000 g, delivery by cesarean section, a history of childhood trauma (emotional abuse, emotional neglect, physical abuse and sexual abuse) as well as substance abuse (other than nicotine) and cigarette smoking at psychosis onset. Results: Individuals with SCZ-D were more likely to be males as well as reported higher rates of birth weight <3000 g and any categories of childhood trauma. In turn, substance abuse (other than nicotine) at psychosis onset was significantly more frequent in patients with SCZ-ND. Binary logistic regression, controlling for multiple comparisons, revealed similar findings, except for the association with any categories of childhood trauma that appeared to be not significant. Conclusion: Our findings partially replicate differential patterns of risk factors for SCZ-D (male sex and birth weight <3000 g) and SCZ-ND (substance abuse at psychosis onset), likely attributable to the effects of timing of exposure. © 2022 SEP y SEPB	2022	Cyran, A.;Piotrowski, P.;Samochowiec, J.;Grąźlewski, T.;Misiak, B.	Revista de Psiquiatria y Salud Mental	10.1016/j.rpsm.2022.05.005
Screening Influencing Factors Of Blood Stasis Constitution In Traditional Chinese Medicine	Objective: To study the influencing factors of blood stasis constitution and provide a basis for treating blood stasis-related diseases by traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) constitution identification. Methods: Data were collected using the self-developed TCM constitution identification platform based on B/S model by the project team. The obtained data were divided into blood stasis constitution and normal constitution groups. The differences of the categorical type influencing factors (gender, birth mode, feeding mode within four months of birth, family history, marital status, eating habits, sleeping habits, exercise habits, emotional state, stress situation, and living environment) and the quantitative type influencing factors (sleep time, age, and mother's age at birth) on the constitution of the two groups were analyzed. In the single-factor analysis, the Pearson's chi-square test was selected for the categorical variable, and the independent sample t test and Mann-Whitney U nonparametric test were selected for the quantitative variables according to whether they conformed to the positive-terrestrial distribution; the binary logistic stepwise regression method was selected for the multi-factor analysis. Results: The data of 318 cases were collected from the TCM composition identification platform, and 159 cases of blood stasis constitution were used as the experimental group and 159 cases of normal constitution were used as the control group. The Pearson's chi-square test yielded significant differences (P < 0.05) in the effects of gender, pressure situation, family history, living environment, emotional state, exercise habits, and dietary habits on blood stasis constitution. The independent samples t test yielded differences in sleep duration between the blood stasis constitution and normal constitution populations (P < 0.05), which meant sleep duration of the blood stasis constitution population was less than that of the normal constitution population. The Mann-Whitney U nonparametric test results accepted the original hypothesis that there was no difference in the distribution of age and mother's age at birth across constitution types (P > 0.05). Binary logistic regression analysis showed that gender, family history, marital status, living environment, exercise habits, and emotional state were risk factors for blood stasis constitution (P < 0.05). Conclusion: Gender, family history, living environment, emotional state, and exercise habits were significant influencing factors of blood stasis constitution. Blood stasis constitution populations can pay more attention to these influencing factors in their daily life for the prevention and reconciliation of blood stasis constitution. © 2022 Digital Chinese Medicine	2022	Xiaoying, Z.;Shengwen, Y.;Jintao, O.;Zhuo, W.;Guangrong, W.;Yue, L.	Digital Chinese Medicine	10.1016/j.dcmed.2022.06.006
Antecedents Of Cerebral Palsy According To Severity Of Motor Impairment	Introduction: The purpose of this study was to determine whether antecedents and neuroimaging patterns vary according to the severity of motor impairment in children with cerebral palsy. Material and methods: A population-based study in which all 309 term-born children with spastic and dyskinetic cerebral palsy born between 1983 and 1994 and 618 matched controls were studied. Antecedents were retrieved from obstetric records. Information on neuroimaging was retrieved from the cerebral palsy Register of Western Sweden. Cases were grouped by severity of motor impairment: mild (walks without aids), moderate (walks with aids) or severe (dependent on wheelchair). Binary logistic regression, the Cochran–Armitage test for trends, interaction analyses and interrelationship analyses were performed. Results: Antecedents associated with mild motor impairment were antepartum (placental weight, maternal weight and antibiotic therapy) or intrapartum and postpartum adverse events (meconium-stained amniotic fluid, low Apgar score, admission to neonatal intensive care unit and neonatal encephalopathy). Antecedents associated with severe motor impairment were antepartum (congenital infection, small head circumference and brain maldevelopment) or intrapartum and postpartum (emergency cesarean section and maternal antibiotic therapy). Comparisons between mild and severe motor impairment revealed congenital infection, maldevelopment, neonatal encephalopathy and meconium aspiration syndrome significantly more often in the group with severe motor impairment (p < 0.05). White matter injury was the most common neuroimaging pattern in mild motor impairment, whereas maldevelopment and cortical/subcortical lesions were most common in the severe motor impairment group. Conclusions: Our results suggest a variation in antecedents associated with cerebral palsy, related to severity of motor impairment. Timing of antecedents corresponded to neuroimaging patterns. © 2016 Nordic Federation of Societies of Obstetrics and Gynecology	2016	Ahlin, K.;Himmelmann, K.;Nilsson, S.;Sengpiel, V.;Jacobsson, B.	Acta Obstetricia et Gynecologica Scandinavica	10.1111/aogs.12885
Medication Abortion Failure In Women With And Without Previous Cesarean Delivery	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association between previous cesarean delivery and medication abortion failure and the association between parity and failure.;METHODS: Data were abstracted from 2035 consecutive charts of women who underwent medication abortion in 2011. All women were at 63 days gestation or less and received mifepristone 200mg orally and misoprostol 800 mcg buccally. We used multivariate logistic regression to assess the relationship between failure, defined as requiring either curettage or additional medication, and prior cesarean delivery. We also examined the relationship between failure and parity.;RESULTS: Follow-up was available on 1609 (79%) patients. Overall, 4.5% of patients experienced failure. Neither cesarean delivery nor parity was associated with failure; 6.5% of women with prior cesarean delivery experienced failure, compared to 3.7% of nulliparous women [adjusted odds ratio (aOR), 1.79, 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.83-3.87]. With regard to parity, 4.7% of women with two or more previous births experienced failure, compared to 3.7% of nulliparous women (aOR, 1.07, 95% CI, 0.54-2.14).;CONCLUSION: We did not find significant associations between prior cesarean delivery and failure or parity and failure. A previous study of patients who had received a less effective regimen reported significant associations between cesarean delivery and failure and parity and failure. While our results do not rule out the possibility of modest associations due to our limited statistical power, they are reassuring relative to previous findings.;IMPLICATIONS: Our results suggest that if there are differences in women's odds of medication abortion failure by obstetric history, such differences are unlikely to be large. Providers and patients may factor this information into decision making about methods of pregnancy termination. Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2015	Dehlendorf, CE;Fox, EE;Ali, RF;Anderson, NC;Reed, RD;Lichtenberg, ES	Contraception	10.1016/j.contraception.2015.07.011
Lower Uterine Segment Involvement Is A Prognostic Factor For Recurrence In Endometrial Cancer A Study Of Patient Cohort Treated With Open And Minimally Invasive Surgery	OBJECTIVE: To determine whether lower uterine segment involvement is associated with an increased risk recurrence in endometrial cancer.test was used to compare populations, and multivariate analysis was performed using a logistic regression model. RESULT(S): Complete medical records were available for 469 patients. Of those, 230 patients had lower uterine segment involvement and 239 patients did not. A total of 221 underwent laparotomies as compared to 248 who underwent minimally invasive approach. Twenty-three patients in stage I and 27 with advanced stage had recurrence. In 91 patients with advanced stage, 69 had LUSI (p<0.001). Laparotomy patients had moreMed 2020;65:8-14) STUDY DESIGN: Case-controlled retrospective review of patients with endo-metrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium. Recurrence rates in patients with lower uterine segment involvement (LUSI) were compared to those without LUSI. Patients were stratified to disease stage, recurrence, mode of surgery, and history of cesarean delivery. Pearson's chi2 association with LUSI as compared to laparoscopy/ robotic (p=0.049). However, patients with LUSI under-go ing laparoscopy robotics had higher recurrence (p= 0.026). There was no correlation between history of cesarean delivery and risk for development of LUSI (p=0.731). CONCLUSION(S): Lower uterine segment involvement is associated with risk of recurrence in patients with stage IA endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endo-metrium and laparoscopic/ robotic approach.Copyright © Journal of Reproductive Medicine, Inc.	2020	Lim, E.K.;Ibeanu, O.;Malhotra, T.;Liang, D.;Miller, M.A.	Journal of Reproductive Medicine	
On The Relationship Between Social Support And Early Breastfeeding Termination	Background: There is no substitute to mother breastfeeding; on the one hand, mothers need all-out support, especially in the first days after delivery, which is one of the effective factors for women's success in breastfeeding. Objectives: The aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between social support and early termination of breastfeeding. Methods: This retrospective study examined the degree of social support for mothers embarking on early termination of breastfeeding. It covered a group of 235 individuals (150 individuals in the control group and 85 in the experimental group) as its participants. The data were collected through three separate questionnaires: The Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support Questionnaire, the demographic questionnaire and the researcher-made questionnaire of evaluation of breastfeeding. The T-test, Mann-Whitney, chi-square and logistic regression tests were used for analysis by SPSS 16. Results: The results revealed that compared to mothers in the experimental group, unwanted pregnancies (p=0.001) and caesarian section deliveries (p=0.007) were significantly more observed in the control group mothers. Those characterized by termination of breastfeeding received (about 22 times) weaker social support compared to the breastfeeding mothers (p<0.001, OR~22). Furthermore, the first breastfeeding upon birth was less (about 0.211 times) observed among the experimental group mothers than the group of mothers characterized by breastfeeding (p=0.006, OR~0.211). Conclusion: Husband encouragement and support and high social support are highly effective in successful breastfeeding and in this line, all-out support for mother, including support by family and society, seem very necessary.	2020	M., Faghani, Aghoozi;M., Karimi, Khoshal;Fayazi, S.;S. H., Tork, Zahrani;Amerian, M.	Preventive Care in Nursing & Midwifery Journal	
Maternal Anthropometric Variables And Clinical Factors Shape Neonatal Microbiome	Recent studies indicate the existence of a complex microbiome in the meconium of newborns that plays a key role in regulating many host health-related conditions. However, a high variability between studies has been observed so far. In the present study, the meconium microbiome composition and the predicted microbial metabolic pathways were analysed in a consecutive cohort of 96 full-term newborns. The effect of maternal epidemiological variables on meconium diversity was analysed using regression analysis and PERMANOVA. Meconium microbiome composition mainly included Proteobacteria (30.95%), Bacteroidetes (23.17%) and Firmicutes (17.13%), while for predicted metabolic pathways, the most abundant genes belonged to the class metabolism. We observed a significant effect of maternal Rh factor on Shannon and Inverse Simpson indexes (p = 0.045 and p = 0.049 respectively) and a significant effect of delivery mode and maternal antibiotic exposure on Jaccard and Bray-Curtis dissimilarities (p = 0.001 and 0.002 respectively), while gestational age was associated with observed richness and Shannon indexes (p = 0.018 and 0.037 respectively), and Jaccard and Bray-Curtis dissimilarities (p = 0.014 and 0.013 respectively). The association involving maternal Rh phenotype suggests a role for host genetics in shaping meconium microbiome prior to the exposition to the most well-known environmental variables, which will influence microbiome maturation in the newborn. Copyright © 2022. The Author(s).	2022	Farinella, R;Rizzato, C;Bottai, D;Bedini, A;Gemignani, F;Landi, S;Peduzzi, G;Rosati, S;Lupetti, A;Cuttano, A;Moscuzza, F;Tuoni, C;Filippi, L;Ciantelli, M;Tavanti, A;Campa, D	Scientific Reports	10.1038/s41598-022-06792-6
Effect Of The Delivery Way And Number Of Parity In The Subsequent Incidence Of Placenta Previa	Aim: To appraise the impact of previous birth type and the number of deliveries on placenta previa incidence and the extent of intrapartum massive hemorrhage. Materials: Placenta previa complications among healthy singleton subsequent pregnancies following previous pregnancies without placenta previa history were classified according to their birth types and previous numbers of parity. Subgroups of subsequent pregnancies with massive hemorrhage and placental adhesion anomalies were compared. Result: One, two, three or more previous cesarean births triggered a significant increase in the rate of massive hemorrhage when compared to subgroups of previous vaginal births (31.5% versus 50.9%, p = .02; 32.7% versus 69.0%, p = .001; and 42.9% versus 81.9%, p = .035, respectively). The rate of placental adhesion anomalies in all subgroups of previous cesarean births were statistically higher than subgroups of previous vaginal births (12.4 versus 32.7%, p = .003; 10.2% versus 52.2%, p = .001; and 9.5% versus 63.6%, p = .001, respectively). Urogenital complications in women with one previous cesarean birth were higher than those of the vaginal birth group (9.1 versus 0%, p = .004). Conclusion:  Previous cesarean births are more frequently associated with increased massive hemorrhage and placental adhesion anomalies in subsequent pregnancies with placenta previa when compared to previous vaginal births.	2020	Ozdemirci, S;Akpinar, F;Baser, E;Bilge, M;Unlubilgin, E;Yucel, A;Yalvac, S;Moraloglu Tekin, O	Journal of Maternal-Fetal & Neonatal Medicine	10.1080/14767058.2019.1570121
Preventing Covid-19 Transmission On Labor And Delivery: A Decision Analysis	OBJECTIVE: The health care system has been struggling to find the optimal way to protect patients and staff from coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Our objective was to evaluate the impact of two strategies on transmission of COVID-19 to health care workers (HCW) on labor and delivery (L&D).;STUDY DESIGN: We developed a decision analytic model comparing universal COVID-19 screening and universal PPE on L&D. Probabilities and costs were derived from the literature. We used individual models to evaluate different scenarios including spontaneous labor, induced labor, and planned cesarean delivery (CD). The primary outcome was the cost to prevent COVID-19 infection in one HCW. A cost-effectiveness threshold was set at $25,000 to prevent a single infection in an HCW.;RESULTS: In the base case using a COVID-19 prevalence of 0.36% (the rate in the United States at the time), universal screening is the preferred strategy because while universal PPE is more effective at preventing COVID-19 transmission, it is also more costly, costing $4,175,229 and $3,413,251 to prevent one infection in the setting of spontaneous and induced labor, respectively. For planned CD, universal PPE is cost saving. The model is sensitive to variations in the prevalence of COVID-19 and the cost of PPE. Universal PPE becomes cost-effective at a COVID-19 prevalence of 34.3 and 29.5% and at a PPE cost of $512.62 and $463.20 for spontaneous and induced labor, respectively. At a higher cost-effectiveness threshold, the prevalence of COVID-19 can be lower for universal PPE to become cost-effective.;CONCLUSION: Universal COVID-19 screening is generally the preferred option. However, in locations with high COVID-19 prevalence or where the local societal cost of one HCW being unavailable is the highest such as in rural areas, universal PPE may be cost-effective and preferred. This model may help to provide guidance regarding allocation of resources on L&D during these current and future pandemics.;KEY POINTS: . Universal screening is the preferred strategy for labor.. . With high prevalence, universal PPE is cost-effective.. . For planned cesarean, universal PPE is cost saving.. Copyright Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.	2020	Savitsky, LM;Albright, CM	American Journal of Perinatology	10.1055/s-0040-1713647
Blood Cells Profile In Umbilical Cord Of Late Preterm And Term Newborns	OBJECTIVE: To describe the hematological profile in cord blood of late preterm and term newborns and compare blood indices according to sex, weight for gestational age and type of delivery.;METHODS: Cross-sectional study with late preterm and term newborns in a second-level maternity. Multiple gestation, chorioamnionitis, maternal or fetal hemorrhage, suspected congenital infection, 5-minute Apgar <6, congenital malformations, and Rh hemolytic disease were excluded. Percentiles 3, 5,10, 25, 50, 75, 90, 95 and 97 of blood indices were calculated for both groups.;RESULTS: 2,662 newborns were included in the sample, 51.1% males, 7.3% late preterms, 7.8% small for gestational age (SGA) and 81.2% adequate for gestational age (AGA). Mean gestational age was 35.6+/-1.9 and 39.3+/-1.0 weeks, respectively, for premature and term neonates. The erythrocytes indices and white blood cells increased from 34-36.9 to 37-41.9 weeks. Basophils and platelets remained constant during gestation. Premature neonates presented lower values of all blood cells, except for lymphocytes and eosinophils. SGA neonates presented higher values of hemoglobin, hematocrit and lower values of leukocytes, neutrophils, bands, segmented, eosinophils, monocytes and platelets. Male neonates presented similar values of erythrocytes and hemoglobin and lower leukocytes, neutrophils, segmented and platelets. Neonates delivered by C-section had lower values of red blood cells and platelets. Chronic or gestational hypertension induced lower number of platelets.;CONCLUSIONS: Blood cells increased during gestation, except for platelets and basophils. SGA neonates had higher hemoglobin and hematocrit values and lower leukocytes. Number of platelets was smaller in male SGAs, born by C-section and whose mothers had hypertension.	2019	Rolim, ACB;Lambert, MA;Borges, JPG;Abbas, SA;Bordin, JO;Langhi Junior, DM;Chiba, AK;Santos, AMND	Revista Paulista de Pediatria	10.1590/1984-0462/;2019;37;3;00008
Adiponectin Levels In Maternal Serum And Umbilical Cord Blood At Birth By Mode Of Delivery: Relationship To Anthropometric Measurements And Fetal Sex	BACKGROUND: The rate of cesarean section is increasing worldwide. Adiponectin is a hormone related to anti-inflammatory and anti-atherogenic effects; and it's concentrations may change in response to inflammatory situations including surgical intervention. The aim of the current study was to investigate serum adiponectin levels in maternal and umbilical cord blood according to different modes of delivery and their relationship with anthropometric measurements and fetal sex.;METHODS: The study population initially comprised 90 healthy pregnant women referred to the teaching hospital. Eventually, 40 participants in the vaginal delivery group and 35 subjects in the cesarean delivery group were recruited in to the study. Umbilical cord blood and maternal serum samples were analyzed according to the standard protocol from the manufacturer. The collected data were analyzed using SPSS-16 software. P-value < 0.05 was considered as the significance level for all tests.;RESULTS: Our results indicated a significant association between maternal adiponectin and the mode of delivery, with adiponectin levels significantly higher in vaginal delivery compared to cesarean section (P < 0.001). However, no difference was found in umbilical cord blood adiponectin between the two groups (P = 0.51). A significant positive correlation was found between maternal serum adiponectin in the first day after birth and umbilical cord blood adiponectin in the vaginal delivery group (P = 0.007). Nevertheless, this correlation was not statistically significant in the cesarean delivery group (P = 0.62). There was also no significant correlation between fetal sex and anthropometric measurements with maternal adiponectin (P = 0.44) and umbilical cord blood adiponectin (P = 0.86).;CONCLUSIONS: The result of the current study revealed that maternal adiponectin concentration was significantly higher in vaginal delivery compared to cesarean section, which might be due to the increased levels of maternal adiponectin release during labor.	2019	Fazeli Daryasari, SR;Tehranian, N;Kazemnejad, A;Razavinia, F;Tork Tatari, F;Pahlavan, F	BMC Pregnancy & Childbirth	10.1186/s12884-019-2460-y
Evaluation Of Hospitalization Costs And Associated Factors Among Maternity Stays Involving Low-Risk And Moderate- To High-Risk Childbirths In The United States	OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to assess the costs of childbirth and to identify factors associated with such hospital costs for low- and moderate/high-risk childbirth groups.;METHODS: All hospitalizations for childbirth between 2010-2014 in the Premier Perspective Hospital Database were identified. Risk category for each birth was defined by the age of the subject and/or presence of specific maternal comorbidities and obstetric risk factors. Hospital childbirth costs were determined and stratified by risk groups. Factors associated with costs for each risk group were evaluated by multiple regression.;RESULTS: Among 2,367,195 hospitalizations for childbirth, vaginal birth was the most common delivery method (n = 1,596,757; 68%). Among women characterized as moderate/high-risk, 42% (n = 642,495) had C-sections, while 11% (n = 90,211) of women categorized as low-risk had C-sections. The proportion of women with serious maternal morbidity among moderate/high-risk vs. low-risk women was 2% (n = 29,496) vs. 0.3% (n = 2749), respectively. The mean costs for moderate/high-risk vs. low-risk hospitalizations were $6145 (median = $5760) and $5397 (median = $5001), respectively (p < 0.0001). Factors significantly associated with costs for moderate/high-risk hospitalizations included delivery type (C-section vs. vaginal birth), LOS, urban/rural hospital status, geographic regions, calendar year of hospitalization, teaching status, payer types and serious maternal morbidity. Similar factors were found to impact costs among low-risk hospitalizations.;CONCLUSIONS: Characteristics such as delivery type, LOS, geographical region, teaching status, serious maternal morbidity and hospital urban/rural status were shown to impact hospital costs of childbirth. Screening and prevention strategies of factors that negatively impact costs may aid in reducing the hospitalization costs associated with childbirths.	2017	Law, A;Yu, J;Lin, W;Lynen, R;Lin, J	Hospital practice (1995) Hospital practice	10.1080/21548331.2017.1386066
Variation In The Cost Of 5 Common Operations In The United States	BACKGROUND: Health care costs are an important policy focus in the United States. The magnitude and drivers of variation in the costs of common operative procedures are not well understood. We sought to characterize variation in costs across hospitals.;METHODS: We used data from the Nationwide Inpatient Sample from 2001-2011 for 5 elective operations: colectomy, coronary artery bypass graft, total knee arthroplasty, cesarean section, and lung resection. Hospitals were benchmarked for each using hierarchical risk- and reliability-adjustment methods to generate an observed-to-expected cost ratio, which was adjusted for patient demographics, comorbidity, wage index, and procedure complexity. Hospitals were divided into quintiles. Characteristics of high- and low-quintile hospitals and their adjusted outcomes were examined.;RESULTS: Cost observed-to-expected ratios ranged widely for all 5 procedures: 14.9-fold for colectomy, 5.5-fold for coronary artery bypass graft, 12.5-fold for lung resection, 10.6-fold for total knee arthroplasty, and 28.0-fold for cesarean section. Comparing highest to lowest cost quintiles of hospitals, high-cost hospitals were more likely to serve minority and Medicaid patients. Mortality was elevated significantly in high-cost hospitals for colectomy, coronary artery bypass graft, and lung resection (adjusted odds ratio 1.99, 1.32, 2.57; respectively). Service lines were correlated at low-cost hospitals. There was a significant association between greater procedure volume and low-cost hospitals for colectomy, coronary artery bypass graft, and total knee arthroplasty.;CONCLUSION: Despite robust adjustment, there is wide cost variation for common operative procedures in the United States. High-cost hospitals may need to focus on cost reduction at the hospital level to reduce cost across service lines. Benchmarking costs may identify significant opportunities to promote value, or the balance between cost and quality, in operative care in the United States. Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2017	Wakeam, E;Molina, G;Shah, N;Lipsitz, SR;Chang, DC;Gawande, AA;Haynes, AB	Surgery	10.1016/j.surg.2017.04.016
Maternal, Infant Characteristics, Breastfeeding Techniques, And Initiation: Structural Equation Modeling Approaches	OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to examine the relationships among maternal and infant characteristics, breastfeeding techniques, and exclusive breastfeeding initiation in different modes of birth using structural equation modeling approaches.;METHODS: We examined a hypothetical model based on integrating concepts of a breastfeeding decision-making model, a breastfeeding initiation model, and a social cognitive theory among 952 mother-infant dyads. The LATCH breastfeeding assessment tool was used to evaluate breastfeeding techniques and two infant feeding categories were used (exclusive and non-exclusive breastfeeding).;RESULTS: Structural equation models (SEM) showed that multiparity was significantly positively associated with breastfeeding techniques and the jaundice of an infant was significantly negatively related to exclusive breastfeeding initiation. A multigroup analysis in the SEM showed no difference between the caesarean section and vaginal delivery groups estimates of breastfeeding techniques on exclusive breastfeeding initiation. Breastfeeding techniques were significantly positively associated with exclusive breastfeeding initiation in the entire sample and in the vaginal deliveries group. However, breastfeeding techniques were not significantly associated with exclusive breastfeeding initiation in the cesarean section group. Maternal age, maternal race, gestations, birth weight of infant, and postnatal complications had no significant impacts on breastfeeding techniques or exclusive breastfeeding initiation in our study. Overall, the models fitted the data satisfactorily (GFI = 0.979-0.987; AGFI = 0.951-0.962; IFI = 0.958-0.962; CFI = 0.955-0.960, and RMSEA = 0.029-0.034).;CONCLUSIONS: Multiparity and jaundice of an infant were found to affect breastfeeding technique and exclusive breastfeeding initiation respectively. Breastfeeding technique was related to exclusive breastfeeding initiation according to the mode of birth. This relationship implies the importance of early effective interventions among first-time mothers with jaundice infants in improving breastfeeding techniques and promoting exclusive breastfeeding initiation.	2015	Lau, Y;Htun, TP;Lim, PI;Ho-Lim, S;Klainin-Yobas, P	PLoS ONE [Electronic Resource]	10.1371/journal.pone.0142861
Lactate In Cord Blood And Its Relation To Fetal Gluconeogenesis In At Term Deliveries	BACKGROUND: In the human fetus, an increased lactate and glucose level can be anticipated when hypoxia and stress are present and is likely to be a function of both anaerobic metabolism and catecholamine-mediated glycogenolysis/glycolysis.;AIM: We assessed if measurement of lactate in cord artery blood after vaginal and cesarean delivery may predict glucose concentration.;STUDY DESIGN: Umbilical artery cord blood lactacidemia, acidemia, and glucose concentration was tested by 'mini-lab' Radiometer ABL90 FLEX analyzers (Radiometer R, Copenhagen, Denmark) after vaginal delivery (VD), spontaneous (n=493) and by vacuum extractor (n=41) or by cesarean delivery (CD), elective (n=120) and emergency (n=68) in at term, vigorous neonates delivered from March to December 2012 at the 2nd level maternity ward of Policlinico Abano Terme, Abano Terme (Italy).;RESULTS: Cord blood lactacidemia and glucose levels were significantly higher in VD by vacuum extractor than in all other groups (5.32+/-1.96mmol/L, p=0.050 and 103.6+/-30.5mg/dL, p<0.001, respectively) and significantly lower in elective CD group (1.77+/-0.99mmol/L, p<0.001 and 69.8+/-13.0mg/dL, p<0.001). The cord blood lactate concentration was significantly and positively correlated with glucose levels (r=0.434, p<0.001), but significantly and negatively correlated with pH (r=-0,662, p<0.001), NaHCO3(-) (r=-0,802, p<0.001), and base excess (BE) (r=-0,698, p<0.001). However, in multivariate linear regression analysis, only BE, PaCO2 and cord blood lactate were significant predictive variables (R(2)=0.410; p<0.001) of glucose levels at birth.;CONCLUSION: Cord blood artery lactate and glucose concentration are significantly and positively correlated at birth in healthy, at term vaginally and cesarean delivered neonates, but BE is the best indicator of activated fetal gluconeogenesis. Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	2015	Zanardo, V;Mari, G;de Luca, F;Scambia, G;Guerrini, P;Straface, G	Early Human Development	10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2015.01.003
Timing And Consequences Of Early Term And Late Term Deliveries	OBJECTIVE: To examine the timing of elective delivery and neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) utilization of electively delivered infants from 2008 to 2011.;METHODS: Analysis included 42,290 women with singleton gestation enrolled in a pregnancy education program, reporting uncomplicated pregnancies with elective labor induction (ELI) (n = 27,677) or scheduled cesarean delivery (SCD) (n = 14,613) at 37.0-41.9 weeks' gestation. Data were grouped by type and week of delivery (37.0-37.9, 38.0-38.9, and 39.0-41.9 weeks). ELI and SCD for each week of delivery from 2008 to 2011 and nursery utilization by delivery week were compared.;RESULTS: During the 2008-2011 timeframe, a shift in timing of ELI and SCD toward >=39.0 weeks was observed. In 2008, 80.9% of ELI occurred at >=39.0 weeks versus 92.6% in 2011 (p < 0.001). In 2008, 60.5% of SCD occurred at >=39.0 weeks versus 78.1% in 2011 (p < 0.001). NICU admission and prolonged nursery stays were highest at 37.0-37.9 weeks for both groups.;CONCLUSIONS: We observed a shift toward later gestational age at elective delivery from 2008 to 2011 and increased NICU utilization for neonates born at <39 weeks' gestation.	2014	Parikh, L;Singh, J;Timofeev, J;Zahn, CM;Istwan, NB;Rhea, DJ;Driggers, RW	Journal of Maternal-Fetal & Neonatal Medicine	10.3109/14767058.2013.851190
Further Validation Of The Birth Satisfaction Scale-Revised: Factor Structure, Validity, And Reliability	The Birth Satisfaction Scale-Revised is a short but valid and reliable robust measure of different aspects of birth satisfaction. This study aimed to test factor structure, validity and reliability of the Croatian version of the Birth Satisfaction Scale-Revised. In the cross-sectional study, a convenient online sample of 552 women completed questionnaires in the first year postpartum. The Birth Satisfaction Scale-Revised, subscale Satisfaction with Delivery from the Childbirth Perception Questionnaire, and a set of questions on demographic and obstetric data were administered. The results showed the excellent fit of both the three-factor model (Stress experienced during labour, Women's personal attributes, Quality of care) and two-factor model (with Stress and Women's attributes combined into one factor), with no significant difference between the two models. Furthermore, bi-factor modeling revealed a general factor of childbirth experience, which explains the variance of items from Stress and Women's attributes subscales. The internal consistency was high for the total scale and Quality of care, while acceptable for the other two subscales. Convergent and divergent validity was high. Known-group discriminant validity showed that women who gave birth by unassisted vaginal birth and planned caesarean section reported higher levels of birth satisfaction. In conclusion, both empirical findings and theoretical background suggest a three-factor model as the better solution for the Birth Satisfaction Scale-Revised conceptualization. As the Croatian version of the Birth Satisfaction Scale-Revised was shown to be valid and reliable, it is recommended for use to measure birth satisfaction both for research and practical purposes. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)	2022	Nakić Radoš, Sandra;Matijaš, Marijana;Brekalo, Maja;Hollins Martin, Caroline, J.;Martin, Colin, R.	Current Psychology: A Journal for Diverse Perspectives on Diverse Psychological Issues	10.1007/s12144-021-02688-2
Impact Of Preeclampsia On Maternal And Neonatal Health: A Retrospective Cohort Study	Objective - Understanding the relationship between maternal characteristics of patients with preeclampsia (PE) and disease progression, as well as the impact on neonatal and parturient outcomes, is critical to the development of effective interventions to improve maternal and fetal outcomes in preeclamptic patients. Material and Methods - This retrospective study analyzed 94 patients with PE and focused on the relationship between maternal characteristics and laboratory findings, as well as on the impact on neonatal and parturient outcomes. Comprehensive laboratory and ultrasound examinations were performed, with primary outcomes classified into antenatal, perinatal and postpartum periods, and secondary outcomes focusing on neonatal health. Results - Patients with PE requiring maternal intensive care unit (ICU) admission had higher median serum creatinine, AST, and ALT levels vs. non-ICU patients. Patients who required postpartum medications to control blood pressure had elevated median values of urea concentration, systolic blood pressure, and diastolic blood pressure at diagnosis. A notable difference in ALT values was observed when primary cesarean section was indicated (p=0.036). Subgroup analysis revealed higher median birth weight in the Proteinuria 1+ subgroup vs. the Proteinuria 4+ subgroup (p=0.002). Patients with negative proteinuria levels demonstrated less need for neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) compared with higher proteinuria levels. In addition, a higher need for postpartum medical therapy was noted in patients of Proteinuria 4+ subgroup (74.2%). Conclusion - This study emphasizes the important role of laboratory data and blood pressure monitoring, advocating targeted interventions and clinical approaches to improve maternal postpartum outcomes (need for ICU). It also highlights the utility of urine dipstick testing for effective decision-making in the care of mothers and newborns in the postpartum period.Copyright © 2023, Russian Open Medical Journal.	2024	Ocakoglu, S.R.;Atak, Z.;Akselim, B.;Corabay, S.G.;Eser, M.E.	Russian Open Medical Journal	10.15275/rusomj.2024.0207
Exploring The Link Between Cord Blood Lipid Profile And Neonatal Anthropometric Characteristics	Background: The purpose of this study was to look into the connections between the lipid profiles of cord blood and the anthropometric measurements, gender, and delivery mode of newborns. Method(s): Lipid profiles were examined after 300 infants' cord blood samples were taken. For every infant, anthropometric measures, gender, and delivery method were noted. The relationships between the lipid parameters found in cord blood and the features of newborns were investigated using correlation analysis and t-tests. Finding(s): Total cholesterol (TC) was significantly connected with birth weight and head circumference, while triglycerides (TG) was positively correlated with neonatal length. The research also showed substantial relationships between cord blood lipid parameters and anthropometric data. Nonetheless, no appreciable variations in the lipid profiles of the cord blood were identified between neonates born vaginally and through cesarean section, or between male and female neonates. Conclusion(s): In conclusion, the results underscore the significance of lipid metabolism in promoting ideal fetal development and point to a possible relationship between cord blood lipid profiles and newborn growth. Further research is necessary to clarify the underlying mechanisms and long-term implications of cord blood lipid profiles on metabolic health outcomes, even though gender and mode of delivery did not significantly affect cord blood lipid profiles in the population under study.Copyright © 2024 African Science Publications. All rights reserved.	2024	Joag, G.G.;Langade, R.A.;Akshaysinh, C.R.	African Journal of Biological Sciences (South Africa)	10.33472/AFJBS.6.Si2.2024.411-418
Risk Factors Associated With Severe Perineal Lacerations During Vaginal Delivery: A 10-Year Propensity Score-Matched Observational Study	BACKGROUND: Severe perineal lacerations are rare obstetrical complications in high-income countries. However, the prevention of obstetric anal sphincter injuries is crucial because of their long-term consequences on a woman's digestive function, sexual-mental health, and well-being. The probability of obstetric anal sphincter injuries can be predicted by assessing antenatal and intrapartum risk factors. OBJECTIVE(S): This study aimed to assess the incidence of obstetric anal sphincter injuries at a single institution for 10 years and to identify women more at risk by evaluating the relationship between antenatal and intrapartum risk factors and severe perineal tears. The main outcome measured in this study was the occurrence of obstetric anal sphincter injuries during vaginal delivery. STUDY DESIGN: This was an observational retrospective cohort study conducted at a University Teaching Hospital in Italy. The study was conducted from 2009 to 2019 using a prospectively maintained database. The study cohort included all women with singleton pregnancy at term who delivered via vaginal delivery in cephalic presentation. Of note, data analysis was performed in 2 stages: a propensity score matching to balance possible differences between patients with obstetric anal sphincter injuries and those without and a stepwise univariate and multivariate logistic regression. A secondary analysis was performed to further evaluate the effect of parity, epidural anesthesia, and duration of the second stage of labor by adjusting for potential confounders. RESULT(S): Of 41,440 patients screened for eligibility, 22,156 met the inclusion criteria, and 15,992 were balanced after propensity score matching. Obstetric anal sphincter injuries occurred in 81 cases (0.4%), 67 (0.3%) after spontaneous delivery and 14 (0.8%) after vacuum delivery(P=.002). There was an increased odds of severe lacerations of nearly 2-fold for nulliparous women delivering by vacuum delivery (adjusted odds ratio, 2.85; 95% confidence interval, 1.19-6.81; P=.019), with a reciprocal reduction in women with spontaneous vaginal delivery (adjusted odds ratio, 0.35; 95% confidence interval, 0.15-0.84; P=.019) and at least 1 previous delivery (adjusted odds ratio, 0.51; 95% confidence interval, 0.31-0.85; P=.005). Epidural anesthesia was associated with a lower incidence of obstetric anal sphincter injuries (adjusted odds ratio, 0.54; 95% confidence interval, 0.33-0.86; P=.011). The risk of severe lacerations was independent of the duration of the second stage of labor (adjusted odds ratio, 1.00; 95% confidence interval, 0.99-1.00; P=.3), whereas the risk was reduced when mediolateral episiotomy was performed (adjusted odds ratio, 0.20; 95% confidence interval, 0.11-0.36; P<.001). Neonatal risk factors include head circumference (odds ratio, 1.50; 95% confidence interval, 1.18-1.90; P=.001) and vertex malpresentation (adjusted odds ratio, 2.71; 95% confidence interval, 1.08-6.78; P=.033). Induction of labor (adjusted odds ratio, 1.13; 95% confidence interval, 0.72-1.92; P=.6), frequent obstetrical examinations (adjusted odds ratio, 1.17; 95% confidence interval, 0.72-1.90), and women's supine position at birth (adjusted odds ratio, 1.25; 95% confidence interval, 0.61-2.55; P=.5) were further evaluated. Among severe obstetrical complications, shoulder dystocia increased the risk of obstetric anal sphincter injuries by nearly 4 times (adjusted odds ratio, 3.92; 95% confidence interval, 0.50-30.74; P=.2), whereas postpartum hemorrhage occurred 3 times more often in cases of delivery complicated by severe lacerations (adjusted odds ratio, 3.35; 95% confidence interval, 1.76-6.40; P<.001). The relationship among obstetric anal sphincter injuries, parity, and the use of epidural anesthesia was further confirmed in a secondary analysis. We found that primiparas who delivered without epidural anesthesia had the highest risk of obstetric anal sphincter injuries (adjusted odds ratio, 2.53; 95% confidence interval, 1.46-4.39; P=.001). CONCLUSION(S): Severe perineal lacerations were found to be a rare complication of vaginal delivery. By using a robust statistical model, such as propensity score matching, we were able to investigate a broad range of antenatal and intrapartum risk factors, including use of epidural anesthesia, number of obstetrics examinations, and patient position at birth, which are usually underreported. Moreover, we found that women who delivered for the first time without epidural anesthesia had the highest risk of obstetric anal sphincter injuries.Copyright © 2023 The Authors	2023	Laurita Longo, V.;Odjidja, E.N.;Zanfini, B.A.;Catarci, S.;Carducci, B.;Draisci, G.;Lanzone, A.;Bevilacqua, E.	AJOG Global Reports	10.1016/j.xagr.2023.100174
The Prevalence Of Maternal And Newborn Morbidity Following A Repeat Cesarean Section: Data From Zagazig University Hospital	Background and Objective: Cesarean section (CS) is one of the most common obstetric procedures performed worldwide, and new research indicates that the frequency of CS is increasing. Maternal-fetal morbidity and death due to CS is a serious public health problems worldwide. Our study aimed to assess the impact of multiple cesarean sections (CSs) on mother-fetal morbidity. Method(s): This cross-sectional study was performed on 165 women who underwent multiple repeated CSs in our clinic and met the criteria of inclusion by evaluating their records. All women were divided into 3 groups according to the number of CSs: 2nd (n = 111), 3rd (n = 44), and 4th/5th (n = 10). Maternal-neonatal outcomes; blood transfusion needs, adhesions, APGAR scores, and respira-tory difficulties were investigated retrospectively. Result(s): Our results revealed that adhesion (60.6 %) was the most frequent maternal complication. The prevalence of thick adhesions decreased with the number of cesarean sections performed (70, 25, and 5 cases for the previous 2nd, 3rd, and 4 or more CS, respectively). There was no statistically significant difference between the groups in terms of adhesions, uterine rupture, bladder injury, en-dometritis, and wound infection. NICU admission (14.5 %), Low birth weight (3.6 %), and IUGR (3.03 %) were among the unfavorable fetal outcomes. There was a significant difference among the three studied groups regarding APGAR score, maternal age, and hospital stay, while a non-significance was found in birth weight and maternal adhesion. Conclusion(s): Our findings support our hypothesis that the likelihood of maternal complications rises as the number of CSs rises. The manner and time of delivery have a greater impact on infant outcome than the number of CSs. There is no clear absolute barrier for the number of CSs. However, 4 or more cesarean births were recognized as the essential level for the majority of outcomes. The number of CSs must be decreased to reduce the associated issues.Copyright © 2023 Bentham Science Publishers.	2023	Ali, A.E.-S.;Badr, A.I.;El-Behairy, M.M.;Noseir, W.S.	Current Women's Health Reviews	10.2174/1573404818666220518162059
Clinical Study Of Various Intraoperative Complications Observed During Lower Segment Caesarean Section Surgeries At A Tertiary Care Hospital	Background: The cesarean section increases the likelihood of requiring a blood transfusion, the risk of anesthesia complications, organ injury, infection, and thromboembolic disease. Present study was aimed to study, various intraoperative complications observed during lower segment caesarean section surgeries at a tertiary care hospital. Material(s) and Method(s): Present study was retrospective, descriptive study, medical records of women had intraoperative surgical complication/s during LSCS surgeries at our hospital were analysed. Result(s): Incidence of intraoperative complications was 4.87 % (104 out of 2134 LSCS surgeries). Majority were from 26-30 years age group (38.46 %), had parity 1 (46.15 %), had history previous 1 LSCS (38.46 %) & previous 2 LSCS (33.65 %). Common risk factors noted were Obesity (BMI > 25 kg/m2) (37.5 %), hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (20.19 %), Anaemia (19.23 %), previous laparotomy (17.31 %) & h/o intraoperative complication in previous LSCS surgery (16.35 %). In cases with previous LSCS, common indication was impending scar dehiscence (34.62 %) followed by elective LSCS for previous >= 2 LSCS (25 %), Antepartum Hemorrhage - Placenta previa (10.58 %), Fetal Distress (9.62 %), Obstructed Labour / Second stage LSCS (8.65 %). Intra-operative complications noted were extension of uterine incision (37.5 %), Dense uterine adhesions (35.58 %), intra operative atonic post-partum haemorrhage (28.04 %), scar dehiscence (18.27 %), bleeding from placental bed (14.42 %), bladder injury (3.85 %), Injury to inferior epigastric vessels (2.88 %), placenta accreta spectrum (1.92 %) & bowel injury (0.96 %). Maternal mortality was observed in 2 cases (1- placenta accreta, 1 - post-partum hemorrhage) Conclusion(s): Pregnant women posted for LSCS with pre-operative high-risk factors such as obesity, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (20.19 %), history of previous laparotomy/intraoperative complication in previous LSCS surgery are prone for intraoperative complications.Copyright © 2022 Ubiquity Press. All rights reserved.	2022	Baravkar, P.N.;Baravkar, T.P.	European Journal of Molecular and Clinical Medicine	
Sonographic Assessment Of The Lower Uterine Segment (Lus) Thickness And Integrity In Patients With Previous Cesarean Delivery	Objective: To evaluate the appearance of the LUS in patients with previous cesarean section compared to an unscarred uterus. Design(s): A Prospective Study. Setting(s): Maternity and Children Hospital, Arar, Saudi Arabia. Method(s): The study was performed from 1 March 2018 and 31 December 2018. One hundred twenty pregnant women were recruited from the antenatal clinic. Study group consisted of 60 patients with one or more previous cesarean delivery and control group consisted of 60 patients with no history of cesarean delivery. All patients were pregnant at 36 to 38 weeks gestation. A transabdominal ultrasound examination with a partially filled bladder followed by a transvaginal sonographic examination was performed. The obstetrician who performed the surgery documented the appearance of the LUS. Statistical analysis was performed using student t-test and Fisher exact test when appropriate. P-value<0.05 was considered significant. Result(s): No significant difference was found between both groups regarding maternal age, parity, gestational age and cephalic presentation. The sonographic measurement of the LUS in study group was significantly thinner compared to control group. A statistically significant progressive thinning of the LUS was found with the increased number of cesarean deliveries. Two (3.3%) patients were confirmed to have uterine dehiscence. Twelve (20%) were reported to have a paper-thin LUS, two (3.3%) patients had transparent LUS, and 44 (73.3%) had normal LUS thickness. Conclusion(s): The lower uterine segment was thinner in women with previous cesarean delivery compared to women with unscarred uterus.Copyright © 2021, Bahrain Medical Bulletin. All rights reserved.	2021	Mutlaq, J.M.;Hamad, H.M.	Bahrain Medical Bulletin	
Patient-Reported Experience Of Delivery: Results Of The Sigo-Aogoi-Agui National Survey	Objective: few data have been published on the woman' experience of delivery: in order to provide updated information based on a large sample, the AOGOI SIGO and AGUI, the three Italian Scientific Society of gynecologists, conducted a large survey on the opinion of Italian women delivering in a large sample of Italian delivery rooms. Method(s): this is a cross sectional customer's satisfaction study. Eligible for the study were all women who delivered in the participating centers during the study period. The only exclusion criteria was the inability to understand written Italian language. An anonymous questionnaire was given to all women at the time of the hospital discharge by the nurse or the midwife. Result(s): vaginal delivery was reported by 9582 (70.1%) women. With regard to pain control, the vast majority of women (76.0%) reported one or more types of methods for pain relief for at least some of the time during labor. Considering the answers to the question How do you evaluate the usefulness during labor and delivery of the information received?, the proportion of women who responded inadequate or very inadequate was equal to 3.9% (95% CI: 3.6-4.2), but increased to 6.8% (95% CI: 5.0-8.6) in case of operative vaginal delivery, to 5.9% (95% CI: 4.8 7.0) on case of emergency CS (cesarean section) and 5.5% (95% CI: 4.5-6.4) in case of episiotomy (heterogeneity chi-square p value<0.0001). With regard to pain control, the percentage of inadequate or very inadequate responses was 8.9% (95%CI: 8.3-9.5) in the total series (only vaginal delivery and emergency CS) but increased to 13.0 (95%CI: 10.5 15.6) in case of vacuum assisted delivery. With regard to the overall evaluation by the women of the assistance in the obstetric department, the percentage of inadequate/very inadequate was 2.9 (95% CI: 2.7-3.2). Conclusion(s): this study is at our knowledge the largest survey conducted in a Southern European country on the woman' experience of birth in hospital. Italian women are generally satisfied of their experience of birth, but information and pain control must be improved particularly in complicated labor.Copyright © 2019, Partner-Graf srl, Prato.	2019	Scambia, G.;Viora, E.;Colacurci, N.;Viglino, S.;Parazzini, F.	Italian Journal of Gynaecology and Obstetrics	10.14660/2385-0868-114
Risk Factors For Peripartum Wound Dehiscence	Introduction: Wound Dehiscence (WD) following Vaginal Delivery (VD) or Cesarean Delivery (CD) causes considerable discomfort to the woman, leading to significant physical, emotional and financial burden. The rate of Perineal Wound Dehiscence (PWD) is relatively low and more common with instrumental delivery. However, there is minimal information on the incidence and risk factors causing WD, especially for PWD. Aim(s): To assess the incidence and risk factors of peripartum wound dehiscence. Material(s) and Method(s): This retrospective study was conducted in a large tertiary care centre where there were 14759 deliveries. 4671 women had caesarean deliveries and 10,088 women had the vaginal delivery. There were 86 cases (0.8%) of WD in the VD group and 95 (2%) in the CD group. These cases were compared with twice as many controls. Result(s): Induction of Labour (IOL) and BMI >30 kg/m2 were more common in cases compared to controls in the CD group. However, on multivariate analysis, this association was not seen. IOL, meconium stained liquor (MSAF), instrumental delivery and use of episiotomy was more common among cases than controls in the VD group. IOL did not show up as an independent risk factor on multivariate analysis. Conclusion(s): An association between IOL, primigravidae, instrumental delivery and MSAF was seen with peripartum WD.Copyright © 2018, Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic Research. All rights reserved.	2018	Kingsbury, B.;Rathore, S.;Chelliah, H.;Londhe, V.;Benjamin, S.J.;Mathews, J.	Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic Research	10.7860/JCDR/2018/37763.12232
Indicated Preterm Birth In A Type 3 Maternity Ward: Evaluation Of Practices	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the proportion of indicated preterm births among all preterm births in a type 3 maternity ward; to assess practices in terms of mode of delivery in such cases; and to analyse the observed outcomes for such deliveries. Materials and methods A retrospective study was conducted in the obstetrics department of the regional university hospital of Tours (type 3 maternity ward) over a 22-month period. Women with an indicated preterm birth between 22 and 37 weeks of gestation, for whom vaginal delivery was possible, were included in the study. For every woman, the choice of mode of delivery (caesarean before labour or induction of labour) as well as maternal, obstetrical and neonatal factors were recorded. Results From January 2012 to October 2013, 539 deliveries were preterm among which 42.5% were indicated preterm births. Out of 114 women for whom vaginal delivery was possible, 33.3% had a caesarean before labour and 66.7% had an induction of labour. The choice of mode of delivery is influenced by various factors such as local conditions, gestational age and type of obstetrical pathologies. Moreover, birth weight and Apgar score are significantly lower and the hospitalisation rate of newborns is significantly higher in the caesarean before labour group. Conclusion Indicated preterm births represent almost half of preterm births in the maternity ward. A third of these indicated preterm births were caesareans before labour. Due to the neonatal morbidity resulting from indicated preterm birth, it is essential to regularly reassess indications of indicated preterm birth.Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS	2016	Weymuller, V.;Diguisto, C.;Guellier, C.;Perrotin, F.	Journal de Gynecologie Obstetrique et Biologie de la Reproduction	10.1016/j.jgyn.2015.08.012
Effects Of Elective Cesarean Sections On Perinatal Outcomes And Care Practices; [Efeitos Da Cesárea Eletiva Sobre Os Desfechos Perinatais E Práticas De Cuidado]	Objectives: to verify the effects of elective cesarean sections on perinatal outcomes and care practices, as compared to vaginal deliveries. Methods: cohort study with 591 mothers and their babies, developed in a medium-sized city in the state of São Paulo, Brazil. Data were collected from hospital records and by inter-views at the neonatal screening unit in the city from July 2015 to February 2016. Data regarding childbirth, newborns, sociodemography, and current gestational history were obtained from each mother. The associations of interest were evaluated with Cox regression analyses adjusted for the covariates identified through the results of bivariate analyses presenting a statistical significance level of p<0.20. In adjusted analyzes, relationships were considered significant if p<0.05, with relative risk being considered as the measure of effect. Results: if compared to women who had vaginal deliveries, those who were submitted to elective cesarean sections were at a higher risk of not having skin-to-skin contact with their babies in the delivery room, of not breastfeeding in the first hour of life, and of having their babies hospitalized in a neonatal unit. Conclusions: reducing the number of elective cesarean sections is essential to foster good neonatal care practices and reduce negative neonatal outcomes. © 2020, Instituto Materno Infantil Professor Fernando Figueira. All rights reserved.	2020	Ferrari, A.P.;Almeida, M.A.M.;Carvalhaes, M.A.B.L.;Parada, C.M.G.L.	Revista Brasileira de Saude Materno Infantil	10.1590/1806-93042020000300012
Post-Delivery Complications And Quality Of Birth Practice In District Hospitals In Rwanda: A Cross-Sectional Study	BACKGROUND: The maternal mortality in Rwanda has decreased dramatically in the last 18 years but still remains high. Little is known about the post-delivery complications and the quality of care in district hospitals. This study aims to determine the outcomes of complications of deliveries and the quality of childbirth in district hospitals referring to CHUK. METHODS:A retrospective review of all obstetric patients with post-delivery complications was conducted for a 13-month period from June 2016 to July 2017. We collected data on patients age, insurance, length of stay, type of complications, and in hospital mortality. The quality of care in district hospitals was evaluated by using a follow up questionnaire-based survey. RESULTS: 340 women were transferred with 18.2% mortality. The most common cause of post vaginal complications was PPH (85.6%) due to atony (33%), tear (32%), and retained placenta (16%). On the other hand, the caesarean section (CS) complications were mainly due to peritonitis (63.8%) and PPH (30.3%). Age above 27 years, low social economic status, and length of stay of < 9 days were associated with mortality with p-value < 0.05. Gaps in quality of care were found for caesarean section, emergency care for maternal complications, preeclampsia, and use of guidelines and protocol. CONCLUSION: Despite a tremendous decrease in maternal mortality in Rwanda, post-delivery complications and deaths are still high amongst women transferred from district hospitals. Effective interventions to improve the quality of maternal care focusing on emergency obstetrical care and CS safety may improve the outcome. © The Author(s).	2020	Tuyishime, E.;Mvukiyehe, J.P.;Cubaka, V.K.;Banguti, P.R.	Rwanda Medical Journal	
Effects Of Prenatal Education And Type Of Delivery On Stress Axes	Amaç: Gebelik döneminde alınan eğitim doğum öncesi stres seviyesini değiştirebilir. Bu çalışmanın amacı, prenatal eğitimin farklı doğum tiplerinde (vajinal veya sezaryen), vücudun stres aksı üzerine yani hipotalomo-hipofiz adrenal aks (HPA) ve otonom sinir sistemi (ANS) üzerindeki etkilerini araştırmaktı. Materyal ve Metod: Bu prospektif çalışmada sezaryen veya vajinal doğum yapacak kadınlar gebelik okulunda doğum öncesi eğitim (PNE) alıp almamaları açısından karşılaştırıldı. PNE'si olan kadınlardan yirmisi sezaryen ile doğum yapmış ve bu nedenle diğer gruplardaki kadın sayısı buna göre kararlaştırılmıştır. Sonuç olarak toplam 4 grup şu şekilde oluştu: PNE/sezaryen doğum yapanlar (n=20), PNE/vajinal doğum yapanlar (n=20), prenatal eğitim almayan/sezaryen doğum yapanlar (n=20) ve prenatal eğitim almayan/ vajinal doğum yapanlar (n=20). Bu kadınlarda doğum öncesi HPA ve ANS aktiviteleri, sırasıyla tükürük kortizolü ve kalp hızı değişkenliği (HRV) ile non invazif ölçüldü. HRV, 5 dakikalık elektrokardiyogram kaydı ile ölçüldü ve zaman-bağımlı ve frekans bağımlı parametreler hesaplandı. Bulgular: Prenatal eğitim (PNE) her iki doğum tipinde (vajinal ve sezaryen) doğum öncesi kortizol ve HRV parametrelerini etkilememiştir (p>0.05). HRV parametreleri vajinal doğum yapanlarda sezaryen doğum yapanlardan daha yüksekti (p<0.05). Kortizol ve HRV parametreleri arasında herhangi bir korelasyon gözlenmedi (p>0.05). Sonuç: Prenatal eğitimin HPA ve ANS etkisi olmamıştır fakat doğum tipi HRV parametrelerini değiştirmiştir. Tükürük kortizolü ve HRV, doğum sürecinin fizyolojisini incelemek açısından yararlı parametreler olabilir.	2021	UÇAR, Cihat;BÜLBÜL, Mehmet;YILDIZ, Sedat	Journal of Harran University Medical Faculty / Harran Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi	10.35440/hutfd.1005965
The Effects Of Placental Location On Maternal And Neonatal Outcomes: A Retrospective Cohort Study	Objective: Published research exists that investigates placental location, as well as maternal and fetal outcomes. It is posited that placental location could be an indicator of subsequent maternal and or infant outcomes that could be identified and proactively treated. The aim of this study was to determine whether indeed there is an association between placental location and specific maternal or fetal outcomes. Materials and Methods: A retrospective chart review was conducted on 361 women, who delivered and had obstetric sonograms in a New York academic hospital, between June 2019 and December 2020. The study variables compared to placental location were maternal demographics, substance use during pregnancy, body mass index, blood type, parity, prenatal care, rupture of membranes, mode of delivery, postpartum hemorrhage, systolic/diastolic (S/D) ratio of the umbilical artery, placental location, gestational age at delivery, birth weight, Apgar scores (1 and 5 minutes), and fetal gender. Results: Statistical significance was appreciated in the 5-minute Apgar score category between anterior and posterior placentas (P =.03). Conclusion: Further prospective research is needed to determine whether different placental locations indeed has an effect on maternal or neonatal outcomes, in which case women may benefit from more intensive pregnancy monitoring.	2024	Babayan, Arthur;Hellmann, Rivka;Struk, Iryna;Roberts, Marie-Claire	Journal of Diagnostic Medical Sonography	10.1177/87564793231221754
Prolonged Second Stage Of Labour, Maternal Infectious Disease, Urinary Retention And Other Complications In The Early Postpartum Period	Objective: To study the association between duration of second stage of labour and risks of maternal complications (infection, urinary retention, haematoma or ruptured sutures) in the early postpartum period.Design: Population-based cohort study.Setting and Sample: We included 72 593 mothers with singleton vaginal deliveries at ≥37 weeks of gestation in cephalic presentation, using the obstetric database from the Stockholm-Gotland region in Sweden, 2008-12.Methods: Logistic regression analysis. Odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) were calculated and adjustments were made for maternal age, body mass index, height, smoking, cohabitation, gestational age, labour induction, epidural analgesia and oxytocin augmentation.Results: Rates of any complication varied by parity from 7.3% in parous women with previous caesarean section, 4.8% in primiparas and 1.7% in parous women with no previous caesarean section. Compared with a second stage <1 hour, the adjusted ORs for any complication (95% CI) in primiparas were for 1 to <2 hours 1.28 (1.11-1.47); 2 to <3 hours 1.54 (1.32-1.79), 3 to <4 hours 1.63 (1.38-1.93) and ≥4 hours 2.08 (1.74-2.49). The corresponding adjusted ORs for parous women without previous caesarean were 2.27 (1.78-2.90), 2.97 (2.09-4.22), 3.65 (2.25-5.94) and 3.16 (1.44-6.94), respectively. The adjusted ORs for women with previous caesarean were for 1 to <2 hours 1.62 (1.13-2.32); 2 to <3 hours 1.56 (1.00-2.43), 3 to <4 hours 2.42 (1.52-3.87), and ≥4 hours 2.31 (1.25-4.24).Conclusions: Risks of maternal complications in the postpartum period increase with duration of second stage of labour also after accounting for maternal, pregnancy and delivery characteristics. Special attention has to be given to parous women with previous caesarean deliveries.	2016	Stephansson, O;Sandström, A;Petersson, G;Wikström, A‐K;Cnattingius, S;Sandström, A;Wikström, A-K	BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics & Gynaecology	10.1111/1471-0528.13287
Obstetric Outcomes Of Vaginal Birth After Cesarean Section: A Case-Control Study	Background & Objective: Given the importance of the benefits of natural childbirth and the complications of recurrent cesarean section, we have conducted the present study to determine the maternal and neonatal complications of natural childbirth after cesarean section. Materials & Methods: In this case-control study, the obstetric complications of 84 women who had undergone a previous cesarean delivery referred to Baqiyatallah Hospital in 2018 for vaginal delivery after cesarean section (VBAC) delivery compared with 84 women with a previous vaginal delivery, who intended to give birth vaginally for the second delivery. Demographic, anthropometric, obstetric, and perinatal data of them were collected and registered in a researcher-developed form. Two groups were compared using the t-test and chi-square test. Results: The mean age in VBAC and control group was 30.49±6.83 and 32.08±7.28 years, respectively (P=0.15). There were not any occurrence of urinary rupture, bladder rupture, stool control disorder, uterine rupture, nephrotic infection, and ICU hospitalization of the mothers in the two groups. Regarding puerperal infection (3.57% in the VBAC group and 4.76% in the control group, P=0.69) and hospitalization of neonates in ICU (9.52% in the VBAC group and 5.95% in the control group, p=0.39), there was no significant difference between the two groups. Conclusion: It seems that the overall incidence of obstetric complications in women attempting vaginal birth after cesarean delivery is low and not higher than those with prior vaginal delivery. Therefore, for the achievement of benefits of natural childbirth for both the mother and the fetus, women with a prior cesarean should be offered VBAC.	2023	Soleimani, Zahra;Laluie, Afsaneh;Jenab, Arman;Soleimani, Azam	Journal of Advances in Medical & Biomedical Research	10.30699/jambs.31.146.250
Delivery Mode, Maternal Characteristics, And Developmental Trajectories Of Toddlers' Emotional And Behavioral Problems	Background: Little empirical research examines relationships among delivery mode, other childbirth-related factors, maternal characteristics, and child psychosocial development. Objective: The aim of this study is to explore the developmental trajectories of toddlers' emotional and behavioral problems and the predictive role of psycho-social, childbirth, and maternal characteristics. Method: Participants were 258 mothers and their children who took part in a longitudinal study from birth till the age of 30 months. Self-report instruments were used for the assessment of mothers' infant rearing attitudes, the quality of relationship with the partner, maternal emotional distress, and maternal self-efficacy. The Child Behavior Checklist (1½–5) was used for the assessment of children's behavioral and emotional problems. Results: Latent class analysis for emotional and behavioral problems ended in 3-class solutions. In regard to emotional problems, 83% of children were classified as having a stable low, 11% an increasing, and 6% a decreasing level of emotional problems. In regard to behavioral problems, 86% of children showed a stable low, 5% an increasing, and 9% a stable high level of behavioral problems. Children's gender in combination with maternal education and maternal infant rearing attitudes predict children's membership in the increasing and decreasing emotional problem classes. Children's gender and maternal age in combination with emergency caesarean section, the quality of the relationship with the partner, and maternal self-efficacy explain children's membership in the classes of high and increasing behavioral problems. Conclusions: A combination of such factors as emergency caesarean section, child's gender, maternal age and level of education, maternal infant rearing attitudes, maternal self-efficacy, and inter-parental relationships predict developmental trajectories of emotional and behavioral problems in toddlers.	2019	Jasiulione, Jurgita, Smilte;Jusiene, Roma	Child & Youth Care Forum	10.1007/s10566-019-09487-8
How To Perform Standardized Sonographic Examination Of Uterine Niche In Non-Pregnant Women	Cesarean section, measurement, niche, ultrasonography, Cesarean scar defect, practical guideline, step-by-step 16 Osser OV, Jokubkiene L, Valentin L. Cesarean section scar defects: agreement between transvaginal sonographic findings with and without saline contrast enhancement. Keywords: Cesarean scar defect; Cesarean section; measurement; niche; practical guideline; step-by-step; ultrasonography EN Cesarean scar defect Cesarean section measurement niche practical guideline step-by-step ultrasonography 420 424 5 09/05/22 20220901 NES 220901 Background A niche is defined by the European Niche Taskforce as an indentation of the uterine myometrium at the site of the Cesarean section (CS) scar with a depth of at least 2 mm and is preferably assessed by transvaginal ultrasonography (TVS) using gel or saline1. 14 Pomorski M, Fuchs T, Zimmer M. Prediction of uterine dehiscence using ultrasonographic parameters of cesarean section scar in the nonpregnant uterus: a prospective observational study.	2022	Verberkt, C.;Jordans, I. P., M.;Van den Bosch, T.;Timmerman, D.;Bourne, T.;de Leeuw, R., A.;Huirne, J. A., F.	Ultrasound in Obstetrics & Gynecology	10.1002/uog.24953
Satisfaction Of Women With Childbirth	Aim: The study aimed to determine childbirth experience and the overall satisfaction of women with childbirth and its related socio-demographic and obstetric factors. Design: A cross-sectional study. Methods: We used the Childbirth Experience Questionnaire (CEQ) on a sample of 161 primiparous women. Results: Total mean CEQ score was 49.78 (SD = 6.02). The best-rated domain was the Perceived safety domain at 2.66 (± 1.90). The worst-rated domain was the Professional support domain at 1.66 (± 1.30). Regarding childbirth satisfaction, the mode of delivery proved to be a related factor, with the highest level of childbirth satisfaction in women after surgical delivery. Conclusion: Providing quality care and creating a positive experience that can contribute to overall birth satisfaction should be a common target of healthcare professionals in caring for parturient women. In order to create a positive childbirth experience, it is necessary to pay increased attention to the management of labor pain relief, to improving the professional support provided by midwives (i.e., through a more sensitive approach to mothers), to promoting the active participation of the mother during childbirth, and to supporting spontaneous vaginal delivery.	2021	Maskálová, Erika;Mazúchová, Lucia;Kelčíková, Simona;Samselyová, Júlia;Kukučiarová, Lucia	Central European Journal of Nursing & Midwifery	10.15452/CEJNM.2021.12.0031
Birth Mode And Women'S Experience Of Childbirth: What Relationship?	BACKGROUND: The relationship between birth mode, with the medical care it implies, and women's subjective experiences of childbirth is known to be complex and multifactorial. Considering these complexities, this study aimed to explore the relationship between birth mode and women's childbirth experiences. METHOD: A cross-sectional survey on the most recent childbirth was distributed in three French maternity wards between September and October 2019 as part of a mixed-method research design. All women over 18 years of age who had given birth in the wards in the previous 3 days were eligible to participate. To study these qualitative variables in a finite population, 258 women were recruited by use of a simple random sampling technique. They answered survey questions concerning both sociodemographic data and information about the childbirth experience. The correlation between the survey variables was studied using a Pearson chi-square test. RESULTS: Combined data indicated a positive correlation between childbirth experiences and birth mode. Furthermore, data showed that emergency cesarean births had the most negative impact on respondents' childbirth experiences. Compared to respondents who had an emergency cesarean, those who had a non-instrumental vaginal birth used the words happiness (p =.0095), wonder (p =.0005), and power (p =.0384) significantly more. Additionally, compared to respondents who had a vaginal birth, those who had an emergency cesarean described their childbirth significantly more with the words fear (p <.0001) and powerlessness (p <.0001). CONCLUSIONS: Although several studies have already highlighted the relationship between birth mode and women's negative childbirth experiences, our results show that this relationship can also be read through the lesser use of positive words to describe this subjective experience, thus refining our knowledge and understanding of this event.	2021	Michel, Claire;Rivera Avalos, Oscar;Yi, Mi-Kyung	International Journal of Childbirth	10.1891/IJC-2021-0018
Insights From Outside Bjog	Anal incontinence has a significant impact on mental and physical health, negatively affects quality of life and is associated with anxiety, depression and mortality (Halder and Rogers I Lancet i 2019;393:1183-4). The incidence of anal incontinence was higher in women who had caesarean deliveries than in nulliparous women, indicating that abdominal delivery does not entirely protect against anal incontinence. The data from this observational study confirm the fact that vaginal deliveries are more likely to damage the anal sphincter than are caesarean sections, that exclusive abdominal deliveries do not totally avoid anal incontinence and that women are more prone to anal incontinence than men. Chapter 4 discusses particular cases in which AI has great potential to affect global health, including AI-enabled population health, frontline health worker virtual assistant, patient virtual health assistant and physician clinical decision support.	2019	Kent, Athol;Kirtley, Shona	BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics & Gynaecology	10.1111/1471-0528.15868
Endometriosis Of The Rectus Muscle: A Single-Center Experience And A Novel Laparoscopic Approach	Objective: The aim of this research was to review preoperative and intraoperative findings in patients with rectus muscle endometriosis (RME) and to describe the current authors' novel technique of laparoscopic excision of RME. Materials and Methods: This was a retrospective case series at a single academic institution. The operations in this series were conducted between January 2009 and January 2019. RME was excised laparoscopically or by an open approach, with or without diagnostic laparoscopy to evaluate for pelvic endometriosis. Demographic and perioperative data were obtained from the medical records, and descriptive statistics were generated. Results: Twenty-two patients were included in the analysis. Each of 21 (95%) patients had at least 1 prior cesarean section, and 5 patients each (23%) had a prior excision of abdominal wall endometriosis. All patients reported pelvic or abdominal pain and three-quarters of them reported cyclic pain. One-quarter complained of masses or lumps; however, only 55% had palpable nodules felt on abdominal examinations. All but 1 patient had preoperative imaging, of which 81% were magnetic resonance imaging. Of the 22 cases, 11 (50%) lesions were excised laparoscopically and 11 (50%) were excised with open excision. In 3 patients who had open excisions, laparoscopic evaluation of each patient's pelvis was also performed. Concurrent pelvic endometriosis was present in 71.4% of patients who underwent laparoscopy, with the most-common location being the bladder or ureter (60%). All cases of laparoscopic excision of RME were performed by a minimally invasive gynecologic surgeon. Ninety-four percent of patients reported having complete symptom relief at their postoperative visits. Conclusions: Both open and laparoscopic resection of RME are feasible treatment options and the surgical approach should be determined by specific symptoms, physical examination, and preoperative imaging. Due to the high incidence of concurrent pelvic endometriosis, laparoscopic evaluation of the pelvis should be considered when excision is planned using an open approach.	2021	Melnyk, Alexandra, I.;Foley, Christine, E.;Lee, Ted, T.	Journal of Gynecologic Surgery	10.1089/gyn.2020.0131
What Is The Total Impact Of An Obstetric Anal Sphincter Injury At An Australian Tertiary Women'S Hospital? A Retrospective Cohort Investigation Of Women Affected Between 2009 And 2014	Introduction: The scope of this research was to assess the cumulative impact of sustaining an obstetric anal sphincter injury (OASI). Our primary objective was to collate the degree and nature of symptomatology that may exist beyond the 12-month post-partum period, observe the effect on future birth choices and open a discussion on current models of care. Materials & methods: This research is a retrospective cohort study of women giving birth at the Royal Hospital for Women, Sydney between October 2009 and May 2014 who sustained an OASI during the birth. A total of 601 women were identified and invited to complete a composite questionnaire consisting of three sections: identifying and quantifying bowel symptomatology, exploring the extent of possible sexual pain and dysfunction, and determining impacts of their OASI on their quality of life, subsequent birth choices and their experience of the health care services provided. Previously validated questionnaires (the Manchester Health Questionnaire and the Australian Pelvic Floor Questionnaire) were used to assess bowel and sexual dysfunction symptoms respectively. A custom-created Adverse Composite Outcome (ACO) was used as a threshold to assess the proportion of women who have had ongoing symptomatology or impact, based on what the average individual would consider unacceptable. Results: Of the 600 potential participants, 200 women responded with completed questionnaires at a mean time of 4 years post-OASI birth. The time since birth to survey completion ranged from 16 to 79 months, with time period assessed to be a non-significant factor in those women testing positive for an ACO score. A positive ACO score was identified in 108 women (51%), with those who had experienced a more severe grading of tear (3c or 4th degree) statistically more likely to suffer an ACO (p = 0.029), as were those who had experienced a forceps birth (p = 0.03). The OASI was reported to have had an impact on daily life by 93 respondents (46%), with women reporting various physical, emotional, sexual and functional impacts. Regarding sexual function, of the 169 sexually active women 64% reported some degree of pain during sexual intercourse, of which 11% reported this was frequently or always. Bowel dysfunction was frequently reported, with 111 (55%) reporting a change in their bowel function since their OASI, 38 (19%) reporting bowel dysfunction impacted their ability to exercise and 35 (17%) reporting it impacted their occupation. More specifically, 93 (46.5%) of women reported flatal incontinence, 37 (33%) incontinence of loose stool, 15 (17%) incontinence of solid stool. Urinary incontinence was reported by 163 (81%) of the women, with 43 (21%) reporting this occurred with daily or weekly frequency. In regards to future birth choices, 101 women have had children since their OASI of which 48% reported that their tear had an impact on their delivery choices. A planned caesarean section was chosen by 32%, 26% decided to shift to the private sector, 67% had a subsequent vaginal delivery of which 9% sustained a second OASI. Eighty (40%) had not given birth since their OASI and 29 (36%) of these women indicated their tear influenced this decision. Conclusions: The total impact of an OASI to the woman affected is substantial, with more than half of the women experiencing ongoing symptoms well beyond the post-partum year, close to half reporting their OASI impacting their daily life and a considerable number of women having future birth choices affected. It follows, that with such high rates of unresolved symptomatology, there must be an associated ongoing health care load and expenditure related to the management of these issues in the medium to long term.	2017	Evans, E.;Falivene, C.;Henry, A.;Briffa, K.;Thompson, J.	Australian & New Zealand Continence Journal	
Check Postpartum Opioid Use In New Moms:	In a new national cohort study of more than 300,000 deliveries, findings indicate that women who received a peripartum opioid prescription had rates of new persistent opioid use of 1.7% for vaginal delivery and 2.2% for cesarean delivery.	2019	AHC, MEDIA	Contraceptive Technology Update	
Increased Prevalence Of Non-E. Coli Bacteria-Caused Urinary Infection In Neonates Delivered By Cesarian Section	OBJECTIVES: to assess the association between delivery mode and causative pathogens of infants with urinary tract infections.;MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective analysis of the medical records of neonates delivered in a tertiary academic pediatric hospital and diagnosed with urinary tract infections between January 1,2013 and December 31,2017. Excluded were newborns with urinary tract infections post-urological procedures or neurogenic bladders. The retrieved data included demographic characteristics, clinical presentations, laboratory findings, urine cultures, and renal imaging results. Multivariable logistic regressions were employed to identify associations.;RESULTS: 95 of the 131 neonates' (72.5%) cultures were positive for Escherichia coli. Neonates born via cesarean section (C/S) had a significantly higher prevalence (12/25, 48%) of non-Escherichia coli infections (p = 0.01). The mode of delivery was the only variable associated with non-Escherichia coli infections (odds ratio = 3.1, p = 0.014). Two of the 12 neonates (17%) with non-Escherichia coli cultures in the C/S group were diagnosed as having dilating vesicoureteral reflux.;DISCUSSION: While the impact of mode of delivery on microbiome composition and UTI risk in the pediatric population is well documented, to the best of our knowledge, our study is the first to evaluate and report on the clinical connection between mode of delivery and neonatal UTIs. Most noteworthy was our finding of an elevated prevalence of non-E. coli cultures in the C/S group (p = 0.014, OR 3.1). This bears important clinical implications, particularly in the setting of congenital anomaly of kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT) screening.;CONCLUSIONS: Our analyses in this study reveal a significant link between delivery by cesarean section and neonatal urinary tract infections with non- Escherichia coli urine cultures. These findings carry implications for vesicoureteral reflux screening in neonates by raising the level of awareness of the association between the 2 factors. Additional prospective studies on larger cohorts are warranted to further elucidate this relationship and refine clinical decision-making in neonatal care. Copyright © 2024 Journal of Pediatric Urology Company. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2024	Bar-Yaakov, N;Meidan, B;Ben-Chaim, J;Cleper, R;Bar-Yosef, Y	Journal of pediatric urology	10.1016/j.jpurol.2024.06.038
Systemic Methotrexate (Mtx) In Early Pregnancy: A Retrospective Study Of A Tertiary Maternity Hospital	BACKGROUND: Methotrexate (MTX) is used in clinical practice as a medical treatment option in patients with early pregnancy complications like ectopic pregnancy.;AIMS: To review systemic MTX therapy use in the first trimester of pregnancy in our hospital and to examine subsequent clinical outcomes.;METHODS: Retrospective review of all women treated with systemic MTX in early pregnancy identified from electronic prescription records from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2020 at Cork University Maternity Hospital, Ireland. Relevant data was transcribed from electronic health records.;RESULTS: Indications for treatment were tubal ectopic pregnancy (70%, n = 51), persistent pregnancy of unknown location (22%, n = 16) and caesarean scar pregnancy (7%, n = 5). Treatment was successful in 88% (n = 44) of tubal ectopic pregnancies with 73% (n = 37) and 14% (n = 7) of women receiving a single dose and repeated doses, respectively. Only 8% (n = 4) of tubal ectopic pregnancies required emergency surgery for subsequent tubal rupture. In 93% (n = 15) of cases of persistent pregnancy of unknown location, treatment was successful with one patient requiring uterine evacuation. Women with caesarean scar pregnancy were treated with combined MTX and uterine evacuation without complication.;CONCLUSIONS: The efficacy of medical treatment with systemic MTX for confirmed tubal ectopic pregnancy in our hospital is in line with national and international standards. Careful consideration should be given to treating caesarean scar pregnancy and persistent pregnancy of unknown location with systemic MTX. Systemic MTX use guided by clinicians specialised in early pregnancy complications and safe medication practices may improve treatment success and reduce adverse events. Copyright © 2024. The Author(s).	2024	Lutfi, A;Hayes-Ryan, D;Cottrell, E;Greene, RA	Irish Journal of Medical Science	10.1007/s11845-024-03748-9
Non-Communicable Chronic Diseases: The Role Of Neonatal Characteristics	Background: Non-communicable chronic diseases (NCDs) are still the major cause of mortality and morbidity in young adults. Objectives: The aim of the study was to evaluate the influence of neonatal characteristics on NCD development. Methods: A questionnaire was assessed to evaluate the influence of cesarean section (CS), breastfeeding and prematurity on development of some NCDs. The questionnaire was distributed through an online form. Results: We received 6,379 responses. According to data, CS was not associated with the development of asthma and allergies, celiac disease, type I and II diabetes or obesity and a tendency to be overweight. The study revealed an inverse association between breastfeeding and risk of asthma and allergies, type II diabetes, obesity and a tendency to be overweight. No association was found in relation to type I diabetes or celiac disease. Preterm birth was not associated with development of asthma and allergy, celiac disease or type I and II diabetes, but seems to have a protective role in the development of obesity. Conclusions: Many neonatal characteristics could influence the development of NCDs during life. These characteristics could have a direct or indirect influence on neonatal gut establishment with subsequent health implications later in life. Further longitudinal studies are needed to confirm our conclusions.	2017	Baldassarre, Maria, Elisabetta;Di Mauro, Antonio;Cintoli, Annarita;Mincarone, Giuseppina;Tafuri, Silvio;Laforgia, Nicola	Iranian Journal of Pediatrics	10.5812/ijp.9322
Profile Of Nursing Mothers And Infants Attended At The Primary Health Care Unit	Objetivo: Caracterizar o perfil de nutrizes e dos lactentes atendidas na atenção primária de saúde. Métodos: Estudo descritivo e transversal com abordagem quantitativa, desenvolvido com 135 nutrizes utilizando-se um formulário com perguntas abertas e fechadas para obtenção dos dados. Resultados: O predomínio da faixa etária das nutrizes variou de 20 a 35 anos. A maioria residia com o companheiro, tinham o ensino médio completo e não possuíam emprego formal. A maioria era primípara, havia realizado entre três a sete consultas de pré-natal na atenção primária. Foi prevalente a gestação a termo e o parto cesáreo. As dificuldades apresentadas na amamentação foram: fissuras, dor ao amamentar, ingurgitamento mamário e mastite, levando-as ao uso de fórmulas infantis precocemente. Conclusão: As participantes do estudo foram nutrizes jovens, em idade fértil e com bom nível de escolaridade. No entanto, foi evidenciado baixos índices de aleitamento materno.	2018	Camurça Torquato, Rebecca;Gomes Napoleão Silva, Vanusa, Maria;de Araújo Lopes, Ana, Paola;do Nascimento Rodrigues, Lidiane;Penaforte da Silva, Wandra, Camila;Camelo Chaves, Edna, Maria	Anna Nery School Journal of Nursing / Escola Anna Nery Revista de Enfermagem	10.1590/2177-9465-EAN-2017-0212
Isthmoceles - Accuracy Of Imaging Diagnosis And Clinical Correlation With Histology: A Prospective Cohort Study	Background: Isthmoceles are a growing clinical concern.;Objectives: To evaluate the accuracy of diagnosis of isthmoceles by imaging and to correlate the dimensions with clinical symptoms and histopathology.;Materials and Methods: Prospective study of women (n=60) with >=1 C-section undergoing hysterectomy. Isthmoceles were measured by imaging before surgery and macroscopically on the specimen after hysterectomy, followed by histological analysis.;Main outcome measures: Accuracy of isthmocele diagnosis, correlation with clinical symptoms, and histopathological findings.;Result: By imaging, isthmoceles were slightly deeper (P=0.0176) and shorter (P=0.0045) than macroscopic measurements. Differences were typically small (<=3mm). Defined as an indentation of >=2 mm at site of C-section scar, imaging diagnosed 2 isthmoceles consequently not seen by histology and missed 3. Number of prior C-sections increased isthmocele severity but neither the incidence nor the remaining myometrial thickness (RMT) did. Severity correlated positively with symptoms and histology. However, clinical use was limited. Histological analysis revealed presence of thick wall vessels in 100%, elastosis in 40%, and adenomyosis in 38%. Isthmocele lining was asynchronous with the menstrual phase in 31%.;Conclusions: Dimensions of isthmoceles by imaging were largely accurate with occasionally large differences observed. Number of C-sections did not increase isthmocele incidence, only severity. Indication for surgery remains clinical, considering dimensions and symptoms.;What is new?: Dimensions of isthmoceles should be confirmed before surgery since uterine contractions might change those dimensions. Symptoms increase with dimensions of isthmoceles but are not specific. Endometrial lining within the isthmocele can be asynchronous with the menstrual phase.	2024	Amro, B;Ramirez, M;Farhan, R;Abdulrahim, M;Hakim, Z;Alsuwaidi, S;Alzahmi, E;Tahlak, M;Koninckx, PR;Wattiez, A	Facts Views & Vision in Obgyn	10.52054/FVVO.16.2.021
Delayed Cord Clamping During Deliveries With Meconium-Stained Amniotic Fluid	In this cohort study of deliveries affected with meconium, the perinatal factors that were significantly associated with non-performance of delayed cord clamping were primigravida, maternal diabetes, chorioamnionitis, rupture of membranes >=18 h, assisted vaginal delivery, cesarean section, breech presentation, thick meconium, fetal distress and nonvigorous status of the newborn. Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	2023	Chiruvolu, A;Furqan, A;Desai, S	Early Human Development	10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2023.105753
Association Of Severe Maternal Morbidity And Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder	BACKGROUND: Severe maternal morbidity refers to the most serious complications of pregnancy. Whether severe maternal morbidity is associated with post-traumatic stress disorder is currently under active investigation.;OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to examine the association between severe maternal morbidity and post-traumatic stress disorder at delivery.;STUDY DESIGN: This was a retrospective cohort study querying the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project's National Inpatient Sample, which included 12,857,721 patients for national estimates who had vaginal or cesarean deliveries between January 2016 and December 2019. Patients with mental health conditions other than post-traumatic stress disorder and substance use disorder were excluded. Severe maternal morbidity was defined according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention definition (a total of 21 indicators). Main outcomes were trends and characteristics related to post-traumatic stress disorder, assessed with a multivariable binary logistic regression model. Sensitivity analysis included subcohort assessment restricted to patients per clinical and obstetrical demographics.;RESULTS: A total of 8880 patients had a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder during the hospital admission for delivery (prevalence rate, 6.9 per 10,000). The prevalence rate of post-traumatic stress disorder increased from 5.0 to 8.8 per 10,000 deliveries between 2016 and 2019. This increasing trend remained independent in multivariable analysis. The adjusted odds ratio, compared with 2016, was 1.26 (95% confidence interval, 1.19-1.35) for 2017, 1.50 (95% confidence interval, 1.41-1.60) for 2018, and 1.73 (95% confidence interval, 1.63-1.84) for 2019. Severe maternal morbidity occurred in 210,605 (1.6%) patients. Patients who had severe maternal morbidity were more likely to have a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder than those without severe maternal morbidity (12.8 vs 6.8 per 10,000 deliveries; adjusted odds ratio, 1.57; 95% confidence interval, 1.39-1.78) in multivariable analysis. This association remained robust in several subcohort analyses including (1) participants aged <=35 years (adjusted odds ratio, 1.62; 95% confidence interval, 1.41-1.86), (2) those aged <=35 years without medical comorbidity (adjusted odds ratio, 2.01; 95% confidence interval, 1.70-2.37), and (3) those aged <35 years without medical comorbidity, cesarean delivery, and preterm delivery (adjusted odds ratio, 4.52; 95% confidence interval, 3.56-5.74).;CONCLUSION: There has been a gradual increase in the number of patients with a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder at delivery in recent years among those without other mental health or substance use conditions. These data suggest that there is a possible association between severe maternal morbidity and post-traumatic stress disorder. Copyright © 2022 The Authors.	2022	Duval, CJ;Youssefzadeh, AC;Sweeney, HE;McGough, AM;Mandelbaum, RS;Ouzounian, JG;Matsuo, K	AJOG Global Reports	10.1016/j.xagr.2022.100111
Changes In Maternal Serum Levels Of C3 And C4 Complement Components In Different Delivery Methods And Postpartum Hemorrhage	BACKGROUND: Activation of the complement system may play a role in the pathophysiology of human labor. Yet no unanimous conclusion has been drawn.;OBJECTIVE: To compare the differences in maternal complement components C3 and C4 serum levels in cesarean section and the vaginal delivery at term and in the postpartum hemorrhage.;METHODS: One hundred and sixty six women delivered at term were enrolled in this study. Maternal blood samples were obtained from 47 cases of elective cesarean section and 119 cases of the vaginal delivery. Serum complement levels were measured subsequently by immuno-scatter turbidimetry.;RESULTS: The maternal complement levels declined significantly during delivery by both the cesarean section and the vaginal delivery (p<0.01) in comparison with the baseline. A much larger drop of C3 serum level was found in the postpartum hemorrhage and in the vaginal delivery, and the incidence of the postpartum hemorrhage has a positive correlation with the complement decline rate.;CONCLUSION: The complement system may be involved in the delivery process and represents a predictive value in postpartum hemorrhage.	2022	Cui, G;Zhang, T;Tian, H;Zhang, H;Zhang, J;Wang, X;Zhang, X;Bai, W	Iranian Journal Of Immunology: IJI	10.22034/IJI.2022.93655.2242
Infantile Survival And Neurodevelopment At Three Years Of Age On Delivery By The Intended Delivery Mode In Extremely Preterm Infants	OBJECTIVE: To elucidate the impact of the intended delivery mode on long-term outcomes among extremely preterm infants.;MATERIALS AND METHODS: Women who delivered singletons between 23 0/7 and 25 6/7 weeks of gestation from January 2010 to March 2014 and their infants were included in this study. The cases of fetal growth restriction and those with a chromosomal or major structural abnormality were excluded. The cases of fetal death that was diagnosed before labor onset and cases of non-reassuring fetal status, placental abruptions or umbilical cord prolapse that was diagnosed at labor onset were also excluded. The primary outcome was the incidence of composite adverse events, including death, cerebral palsy, or neurodevelopmental delay, at the age of three years. The composite adverse events, including death, grade III or IV intraventricular hemorrhage, cystic periventricular leukomalacia, necrotizing enterocolitis, focal intestinal perforation, and sepsis of neonatal period, were assessed as short-term outcomes. The association between the intended delivery mode and primary outcome, short-term outcome, and each component was analyzed using a multivariate logistic regression model.;RESULTS: Eighty cases were included in the analyses. Primary outcomes could be assessed in 72 cases. Infantile composite adverse events before discharge were observed in 19 cases (24%). The prevalence of primary outcomes was 40% (29 cases). The intended delivery mode was not associated with primary and short-term outcomes and each component complication.;CONCLUSION: An advantage of intended cesarean delivery in terms of prognosis at three years of age in extremely preterm infants was not observed. Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.	2022	Yamamoto, R;Ikeda, M;Hayashi, S;Mitsuda, N;Ishii, K	Taiwanese Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology	10.1016/j.tjog.2022.02.020
Online Prediction Tool For Female Pelvic Floor Dysfunction: Development And Validation	INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: The aim was to develop and validate (internally and externally) a prediction model for the presence and diagnosis of pelvic floor dysfunction (PFD) in women, including pelvic organ prolapse, stress urinary incontinence and/or overactive bladder via a patient-completed online tool.;METHODS: Using a retrospective cohort of women aged >18 years, from multiple tertiary gynaecology units within Queensland, Australia (2014-2018), the prediction model was developed via penalized logistic regression with internal and external validation utilizing multiple clinical predictors (42 questions from the Australian Pelvic Floor Questionnaire and demographics: age, body mass index, parity and mode of delivery). The main outcome measures were the accuracy of the model in predicting a diagnosis of pelvic floor dysfunction and its specific conditions of prolapse and incontinence.;RESULTS: A total of 3,501 women were utilized for model development and internal validation and 449 for external validation. On internal validation the model correctly identified those with PFD with 97% sensitivity, 74% specificity and a concordance index (C-index) of 0.96. Predictions of pelvic organ prolapse were also accurate, with 86% sensitivity, 83% specificity, C-index 0.83, as was stress urinary incontinence, 84% sensitivity, 87% specificity, C-index 0.87, and overactive bladder, 76% sensitivity, 77% specificity, C-index 0.77. External validation confirmed the model's accuracy with a similar C-index in all parameters.;CONCLUSIONS: This model provides an accurate online tool to differentiate between those with and without PFD and diagnoses of common pelvic floor disorders. It serves as a valuable self-assessment for women and primary care providers. Copyright © 2021. The International Urogynecological Association.	2022	Chen, Z;Mikhail, SM;Buttini, M;Mowat, A;Hartel, G;Maher, C	International Urogynecology Journal	10.1007/s00192-021-04985-7
The Duration Of Breastfeeding And Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder In School-Aged Children	Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most common childhood-onset neurodevelopmental disorders. In some recent studies breastfeeding had positive effects on physical health and mental development of children and these studies have recommended further studies in this issue.;This study evaluated the relationship between duration of breastfeeding and ADHD.;This case-control study was carried out in 2017 on 404 children aged 7-12 (196 children with ADHD and 208 children without ADHD). The questionnaire included items on the risk factors such as the child's sex, age, delivery method, birth weight, birth rank, gestational age, age of mother, duration of breastfeeding, history of neonatal hospitalization, history of drug use in neonatal period, history of drug use in pregnancy, history of hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism in pregnancy, history of neonatal icter, history of neonatal blood exchange. Data were analyzed using t-test, chi-square and logistic regression.;The mean of breastfeeding duration in children with ADHD was 17.05 +/- 7.52 months compared with 18.59 +/- 6.74 months in control group (p = .03). A stepwise logistic regression that included the variables was found to be significant in univariate analysis, demonstrating a significant association between ADHD and breastfeeding duration (p = .01), male gender (OR = 2.8), mother hypothyroidism(OR = 4.5) and history of drug use in neonatal period (OR = 1.9).;Long-term duration of breastfeeding (more than 12 months) could be a protective factor in ADHD. However, further studies are required.	2020	Sepehrmanesh, Z;Moraveji, A;Ahmadvand, A;Mehri, Z	Comprehensive Child & Adolescent Nursing	10.1080/24694193.2020.1797236
Multidisciplinary, Biopsychosocial Factors Contributing To Return To Running And Running Related Stress Urinary Incontinence In Postpartum Women	OBJECTIVES: To examine contributory factors behind postpartum return-to-running and return to pre-pregnancy running level, in addition to risk factors for postpartum running-related stress urinary incontinence (SUI).;METHODS: 881 postpartum women completed an online questionnaire. Clinically and empirically derived questions were created relating to running experiences and multidisciplinary, biopsychosocial contributory factors. Logistic regression was used to determine predictors for return-to-running, returning to pre-pregnancy level of running and running-related SUI.;RESULTS: Median time to first postpartum run was 12 weeks. Running during pregnancy (OR: 2.81 (1.90 to 4.15)), a high weekly running volume (OR: 1.79 (1.22 to 2.63)), lower fear of movement (OR: 0.53 (0.43 to 0.64)) and not suffering vaginal heaviness (OR: 0.52 (0.35-0.76)) increased the odds of return-to-running. Factors that increased the odds of returning to pre-pregnancy running level were a low weekly running volume (OR: 0.38 (0.26 to 0.56)), having more than one child (OR: 2.09 (1.43 to 3.05)), lower fear of movement (OR: 0.78 (0.65 to 0.94)), being younger (OR: 0.79 (0.65 to 0.96)) and shorter time to running after childbirth (OR: 0.74 (0.60 to 0.90)). Risk factors for running-related SUI were having returned to running (OR: 2.70 (1.51 to 4.76)) and suffering running-related SUI pre-pregnancy (OR: 4.01 (2.05 to 7.82)) and during pregnancy (OR: 4.49 (2.86 to 7.06)); having a caesarean delivery decreased the odds (OR: 0.39 (0.23 to 0.65)).;CONCLUSION: Running during pregnancy may assist women safely return-to-running postpartum. Fear of movement, the sensation of vaginal heaviness and running-related SUI before or during pregnancy should be addressed early by healthcare providers. Copyright © Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.	2021	Moore, IS;James, ML;Brockwell, E;Perkins, J;Jones, AL;Donnelly, GM	British Journal of Sports Medicine	10.1136/bjsports-2021-104168
Variables Related To Maternal Satisfaction With Intrapartum Care In Northern Italy	BACKGROUND: The experience of labour and birth is complex, multidimensional and subjective and has the potential to affect the women and their families physically and emotionally. However, there is a lack of research around maternal satisfaction in Italy.;AIM: To evaluate mothers' satisfaction with their childbirth experience in relation to socio-demographic characteristics, obstetric history and intrapartum care variables.;METHODS: A cross-sectional study involving 277 women who had given birth in a low risk maternity unit in Northern Italy was undertaken. Satisfaction with birth was measured using the Italian version of the Birth Satisfaction Scale-Revised (I-BSS-R). The scale comprises three Sub-Scales: quality of care provided, personal attributes of women and stress experienced during childbirth.;FINDINGS: No socio-demographic variables were related to maternal satisfaction. Multiparous women had a higher satisfaction score (p=0.020; CI:0.23;2.75). Antenatal class attendance was negatively associated with maternal satisfaction (p=0.038; CI:-2.58; -0.07). Intrapartum variables that significantly reduced maternal satisfaction were: epidural usage (p=0.000; CI:-4.66; -2.07), active phase >12h (p=0.000; CI:-6.01; -2.63), oxytocin administration (p=0.000; CI:-5.08; -2.29) and vacuum assisted birth (p=0.001; CI:-6.50; -1.58). Women with an intact perineum were more likely to be satisfied (p=0.008; CI:-4.60; -0.69).;DISCUSSION: In accordance with other research, we showed that intrapartum interventions are negatively associated with maternal outcomes and therefore also with maternal satisfaction with birth. The sub-scale that measured Quality of Care provided scored higher than the other two Sub-Scales.;CONCLUSION: Further studies on maternal satisfaction in Italy should be conducted, using the I-BSS-R with the aim to compare outcomes and understand what matters to women during childbirth. Copyright © 2020 Australian College of Midwives. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2021	Fumagalli, S;Colciago, E;Antolini, L;Riva, A;Nespoli, A;Locatelli, A	Women & Birth: Journal of the Australian College of Midwives	10.1016/j.wombi.2020.01.012
Pregnancy Outcomes After Hysteroscopic Surgery In Women With Cesarean Scar Syndrome	Cesarean scar defect often causes postmenstrual abnormal uterine bleeding, dysmenorrhea, chronic pelvic pain, and infertility, which are collectively known as cesarean scar syndrome (CSS). Several studies have reported that hysteroscopic surgery can restore fertility in women with CSS. The study aimed to identify factors that influence subsequent pregnancy following hysteroscopic surgery. Therefore, we studied 38 women with secondary infertility due to CSS who underwent hysteroscopic surgery at Shiga University of Medical Hospital between July 2014 and July 2019. Our hysteroscopic procedure included inferior edge resection and superficial cauterization of the cesarean scar defect under laparoscopic guidance. Patients were followed up for 3 to 40 months after surgery. Surgery was successful in all cases and no complications were observed. Twenty-seven patients (71%) became pregnant (pregnant group), while 11 (29%) did not (non-pregnant group). Baseline characteristics of age, body mass index, gravidity, parity, previous cesarean section, presence of endometriosis, retroflex uterus, and preoperative residual myometrial thickness were not significantly different between the groups. However, the median residual myometrium thickness was significantly higher after surgery than before surgery in the pregnant group (1.9 [1.1-3.6] vs 4.9 [3.4-6.6] mm, P<0.0001), whereas this difference was not significant in the non-pregnant group. Of those who became pregnant, 85% conceived within 2 years of surgery. Although three pregnancies resulted in abortion and one is ongoing at the time of writing, 23 pregnancies resulted in healthy babies at 35-38 gestational weeks by scheduled cesarean sections with no obstetrical complications due to hysteroscopic surgery. The average birth weight was 3,076 g. Our findings support that hysteroscopic surgery is a safe and effective treatment for secondary infertility due to CSS. The thickness of the residual myometrium may be a key factor that influences subsequent pregnancy in women with CSS.	2020	Tsuji, S;Takahashi, A;Higuchi, A;Yamanaka, A;Amano, T;Kimura, F;Seko-Nitta, A;Murakami, T	PLoS ONE [Electronic Resource]	10.1371/journal.pone.0243421
Melatonin Content Of Human Milk: The Effect Of Mode Of Delivery	Objective: Cesarean section rates are increasing in developed countries and could be performed as an emergency or elective procedure. Our research aim was to determine whether elective cesarean section influences the melatonin content, the main circadian hormone, in human milk. Methods: Twenty-one women after vaginal delivery and 18 women after elective cesarean section were included. Only healthy mothers with normal newborns exclusively breastfed were recruited. Two samples of human milk were collected for each woman at three stages of lactation: colostrum, transitional milk, and mature milk; at each stage, one daytime sample and another nighttime sample were obtained. In total, 228 milk samples were studied. The melatonin content was analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results: Melatonin rhythmicity with higher melatonin content at night was maintained at each of the three stages of lactation, regardless of the type of delivery. A higher melatonin content was found in daytime colostrum after cesarean section with respect to colostrum obtained from mothers after vaginal delivery (30.3 pg/mL versus 14.7 pg/mL, p = 0.020). Melatonin content decreased progressively throughout the course of lactation in both groups. This decrease was significant when comparing transitional milk to colostrum in the cesarean group, both in the daytime (p = 0.016) and nighttime samples (p = 0.048). Conclusions: Cesarean section is associated with an increase in daytime colostrum melatonin. No difference was observed in mature milk with respect to vaginal delivery. Melatonin values in human milk decrease during the first month of lactation and circadian rhythmicity was observed irrespective of the mode of delivery.	2020	Aparici-Gonzalo, S;Carrasco-Garcia, A;Gombert, M;Carrasco-Luna, J;Pin-Arboledas, G;Codoner-Franch, P	Breastfeeding Medicine: The Official Journal of the Academy of Breastfeeding Medicine	10.1089/bfm.2020.0157
Temporal Trends In Obstetric Anal Sphincter Injury From The First Vaginal Delivery In Austria, Canada, Norway, And Sweden	INTRODUCTION: Obstetric anal sphincter injuries (OASI) are severe complications that can cause considerable short- and long-term morbidity. Austria, Canada, Norway, and Sweden have similar socio-economic characteristics, and all four countries have access to national birth registers. In this study, we hypothesized that the incidence of OASI should be very similar for different obstetric scenarios in these four countries. Therefore, the aim was to compare the incidence of OASI in these four countries in primiparous women, with spontaneous or instrumental delivery (vacuum or forceps), and in women with a first vaginal birth after cesarean section (VBAC).;MATERIAL AND METHODS: Aggregated data on 1 933 930 vaginally delivered primiparous women and women with VBAC were retrieved from the birth registers gathered in Austria, Canada, Norway, and Sweden. The annual rate of OASI (ICD-10 codes O70.2-O70.3) was presented as the percentage of women with a spontaneous delivery, vacuum or forceps delivery, and a VBAC during the period 2004-2016.;RESULTS: The incidence of OASI varied considerably between countries and over time. Canada and Sweden had the highest rates, and Austria and Norway the lowest. In Norway, the rate of OASI decreased consistently for all types of deliveries after introducing a perineal protection program in 2004 (p < 0.001). During vacuum delivery, the incidence of OASI varied between countries from 4.1% to 15.5% across the study period. In Canada and Norway, the rate of OASI after a forceps delivery was similar in 2004 at ~20% and with differing trajectories to 24.3% (beta 0.49) and 6.2% (beta -1.15) (trend, all p < 0.001) in 2016.;CONCLUSIONS: This comparative register study suggests that there may be considerable potential for lowering the incidence of OASI. The perineal protection program implemented by Norway has been successful. Each country should critically, without prejudice, analyze their current clinical practices and rate of OASI and consider the best preventive strategy. Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Acta Obstetricia et Gynecologica Scandinavica published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Nordic Federation of Societies of Obstetrics and Gynecology (NFOG).	2021	Gyhagen, M;Ellstrom Engh, M;Husslein, H;Koelbl, H;Nilsson, IEK;Schulz, J;Wagg, A;Milsom, I	Acta Obstetricia et Gynecologica Scandinavica	10.1111/aogs.14244
Not All C-Sections Are The Same: Investigating Emergency Vs. Elective C-Section Deliveries As An Adverse Pregnancy Outcome	Electronic Health Records (EHR) contain detailed information about a patient's medical history and can be helpful in understanding clinical outcomes among populations generally underrepresented in research, including pregnant individuals. A cesarean delivery is a clinical outcome often considered in studies as an adverse pregnancy outcome, when in reality there are circumstances in which a cesarean delivery is considered the safest or best choice given the patient's medical history, situation, and comfort. Rather than consider all cesarean deliveries to be negative outcomes, it is important to examine other risk factors that may contribute to a cesarean delivery being an adverse event. Looking at emergency admissions can be a useful way to ascertain whether or not a cesarean delivery is part of an adverse event. This study utilizes EHR data from Penn Medicine to assess patient characteristics and pregnancy-related conditions as risk factors for an emergency admission at the time of delivery. After adjusting for pregnancy number and cesarean number for each patient, preterm birth increased risk of an emergency admission, and patients younger than 25, or identifying as Black/African American, Asian, or Other/Mixed, had an increased risk. Later pregnancies and repeat cesareans decreased the risk of an emergency delivery, and White, Hispanic, and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander patients were at decreased risk. The same risk factors and trends were found among cesarean deliveries, except that Asian patients did not have an increased risk, and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander patients did not have a reduced risk in this group.	2021	Canelon, SP;Boland, MR	Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing	
Association Of Race With Anal Incontinence In Parous Women	INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: To investigate the relationship between race and anal incontinence (AI). Our hypotheses were (a) AI symptoms are similar between white and black women and (b) asymptomatic black and white women are equally likely to develop AI over one year of prospective observation.;METHODS: Parous women enrolled in a longitudinal cohort study were assessed for AI symptoms annually using Epidemiology of Prolapse and Incontinence Questionnaire. An AI score > 0 indicated any bother from AI; a score > 22.8 indicated clinically significant AI. We compared the odds of AI scores >0 at the visit level between white vs black women with logistic regression models using generalized estimating equations. We also estimated the odds of new AI symptoms at time T + 1(one year later) among women free of AI symptoms at time T comparing white vs black women. In the latter analysis, we considered new AI symptoms to be represented by scores above 11.4. Covariates included in the adjusted models were: mode of delivery, obstetrical anal sphincter injuries, body mass index, age at the first delivery, and parity at enrollment.;RESULTS: Among 1256 participants, 189 (15.0%) were black. AI score = 0 was observed at 74.2% (= 5122/6902) person-visits. The adjusted odds ratio of AI score > 0 was 1.83 (95% CI 1.24, 2.70) for white vs black women. Across 4364 visit pairs with AI score = 0 at time T, 203 (4.7%) had AI score > 11.4 at visit T + 1 and white race significantly increased the odds of developing symptoms at time T + 1 (adjusted OR = 2.26, 95% CI 1.28, 3.98).;CONCLUSIONS: In an analysis that controlled for mode of delivery, obstetrical anal sphincter injuries, obesity, age at first delivery, and parity, white race was significantly associated with AI symptoms at any point in time as well as to the development of AI over one year of observation.	2020	Wang, R;Munoz, A;Blomquist, JL;Handa, VL	International Urogynecology Journal	10.1007/s00192-019-04144-z
Maternal And Fetal Risk Factors Associated With Late Preterm Infants	OBJECTIVE: To determine maternal and fetal risk factors associated with the birth of late preterm infants in comparison to those born at term.;METHODS: A case-control study was carried out in a tertiary center for high-risk pregnancies. For the cases, the study enrolled post-partum mothers and their respective newborns with gestational ages equal or greater than 34 weeks and less than 37 weeks. As controls, the post-partum mothers and their newborns with gestational ages of 37 weeks or greater were selected. The sample was calculated with a ratio of two controls for each case, resulting in 423 patients. Association studies were performed using the chi-square test or Fisher's exact test and logistic regression analysis.;RESULTS: The variables associated with late prematurity were inadequate prenatal (Odds Ratio [OR] 1.23; confidence interval of 95% [95%CI] 1.12-1.34; p<=0.001), premature rupture of membranes (OR 4.98; 95%CI 2.66-9.31; p<=0.001), length of hospital stay >=24 hours until birth (OR 0.18; 95%CI 0.06-0.52; p<=0.001), cesarean section (OR 2.74; 95%CI 1.69-4.44; p<=0.001) and small for gestational age newborn (OR 3.02; 95%CI 1.80-5.05; p<=0.001).;CONCLUSIONS: Inadequate prenatal care and membranes' premature rupture were found as factors associated with the late preterm birth. It is important to identify the factors that allow intervention with adequate prenatal care in order to reduce poor outcomes due to late prematurity.	2020	Vanin, LK;Zatti, H;Soncini, T;Nunes, RD;Siqueira, LBS	Revista Paulista de Pediatria	10.1590/1984-0462/2020/38/2018136
Characterization Of Stem Cells And Immune Cells In Preterm And Term Mother'S Milk	BACKGROUND: Human milk is known to be rich in cellular components, including stem cells and immune cells. However, the dynamics of these cellular components at different lactation stages, and the differences between milk for preterm and term infants, are poorly understood.;RESEARCH AIM: To identify changes in the cellular components of human milk at different lactation stages, and to explore the associations of these changes with maternal and infant characteristics.;METHODS: Forty mothers of newborns of different gestational ages were enrolled. Colostrum, transitional, and mature milk samples were collected. Stem cell and immune cell molecule markers were detected using flow cytometry. Pluripotent genes (SOX2, NANOG, OCT4, and KLF4) were detected via quantitative real-time PCR.;RESULTS: Human milk contained some stem cells but more immune cells. The percentages of hemopoietic stem cells were significantly higher in mature milk than in colostrum, and the percentages of total immune cells were lower in mature milk than in colostrum. The percentages of hemopoietic stem cells in colostrum and transitional milk were influenced by gestational age. Some minor differences in the cell composition of human milk could be explained by maternal body mass index, the mode of delivery, and parity.;CONCLUSION: Our results again confirmed that human milk contains stem cells. Additionally, the percentages of hemopoietic stem cells and major immune cells changed dynamically at different lactation stages and were associated with gestational age at delivery.	2019	Li, S;Zhang, L;Zhou, Q;Jiang, S;Yang, Y;Cao, Y	Journal of Human Lactation	10.1177/0890334419838986
Non-Fasting Lipids Detection And Their Significance In Pregnant Women	BACKGROUND: The majority of pregnant women present an increase in lipids. To investigate the influence of the non-fasting state in the lipid and lipoprotein profile in pregnancy, we have aimed to assess the dynamic change of serum lipid and lipoprotein profile with serum glucose in pregnancy to contrast the differences between fasting and non-fasting state.;METHODS: Forty-five pregnant women and 41 controls were included in our study. All serum samples were assayed for TC, TG, HDL-C, LDL-C, ApoB, ApoA-1, Lp(a), sdLDL, and Glu concentrations. The comparison between pregnant women and controls (fasting and 2 h after breakfast), differences of these measurement results at three point-in-time, the associations between the concentrations of serum lipid and some maternal and fetus characteristics was conducted with statistical analysis.;RESULTS: Except Glu (p < 0.001), there were no significant differences of all lipids between three point-in-time in pregnant women (p > 0.1). The statistically higher levels were found in fasting TC (p = 0.003), TG (p = 0.019), LDL-C (p = 0.002), ApoB (p = 0.001), ApoA1 (p = 0.013) and sdLDL (p < 0.001) of pregnant women compared with controls. Besides, the statistically significances were also found in 2-h TC (p = 0.001), LDL-C (p = 0.001), ApoB (p < 0.001), Glu (p = 0.013), ApoA-1 (p = 0.009) and sdLDL (p < 0.001) of pregnant women compared with controls. Otherwise, in non-fasting status (2 h after breakfast), pregnancy complication was relevant to TC (p = 0.041), HDL-C (p = 0.014), Glu (p = 0.004). Delivery mode was relevant to TC (p = 0.012), HDL-C (p = 0.013), LDL-C (p = 0.026), ApoA-1 (p = 0.012), and sdLDL (p = 0.044). BMI was relevant to TG (p = 0.027).;CONCLUSION: We have suggested the non-fasting lipids detection can be used for estimate lipid metabolism in pregnant women.	2019	Li, Y;He, J;Zeng, X;Zhao, S;Wang, X;Yuan, H	Lipids in Health & Disease	10.1186/s12944-019-1038-z
Influence Of Mode Of Delivery On Cytokine Expression In Cord Blood	The mode of delivery is a known risk factor for immune-related disorders. Normal term vaginal delivery is an inflammatory process and several cytokines are suggested to be involved. The purpose of the study was to evaluate differences in cord blood cytokine expression between modes of delivery in term-born children. Cord blood was collected from 49 elective Caesarean section (C-section) cases and from 49 normal vaginal term deliveries. Plasma was tested for 17 cytokines with Bio-Plex R-200-system. Mann-Whitney test was used for comparing the groups with Bonferroni correction for multiple testing. Four cytokines showed significant differences between the modes of delivery. Interleukin-6, Interleukin-8 showed a significantly higher expression in the vaginal delivery group, while Tumor-Necrosis Factor-a, Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor showed a significantly higher level of expression in the C-section cord blood. Our study shows that there is differential expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines in elective C-section compared with normal term vaginal delivery. Copyright © 2019 American Society for Histocompatibility and Immunogenetics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2019	Nandanan, B;Chua, MC;Chiang, WC;Goh, A;Kumar, D;Knippels, L;Garssen, J;Sandalova, E	Human Immunology	10.1016/j.humimm.2019.03.018
Long-Term Risks Of Stress And Urgency Urinary Incontinence After Different Vaginal Delivery Modes	BACKGROUND: Although operative delivery increases the risk of immediate pelvic floor trauma, no previous studies have adequately compared directly the effects of different kinds of instrumental vaginal deliveries on stress urinary incontinence and/or urgency urinary incontinence.;OBJECTIVE(S): The objectives of the study were to estimate and compare the impact of different kinds of vaginal deliveries, including spontaneous, vacuum, and forceps, on stress and urgency urinary incontinence.;STUDY DESIGN: All women aged 20 years or older, living in 1 county in Norway were invited to participate in 2 surveys addressing stress and urgency urinary incontinence using validated questions, Do you leak urine when you cough, sneeze, laugh, or lift something heavy? and Do you have involuntary loss of urine in connection with sudden and strong urge to void? with response options yes or no. Incontinence data were linked to the Medical Birth Registry of Norway. For this study, we included only women who had a history of vaginal birth(s). Case definitions for stress and urgency urinary incontinence were moderate to severe based on Sandvik Severity Index (slight, moderate, severe). We adjusted analyses for age, parity, body mass index, and time since last delivery and addressed effect modification, including an age threshold of 50 years.;RESULTS: The final analysis included 13,694 women of whom 12.7% reported stress urinary incontinence and 8.4% urgency urinary incontinence. Among women aged younger than 50 years, there was a statistically significant difference in the risk of stress urinary incontinence for forceps delivery (odds ratio, 1.42, 95% confidence interval, 1.09-1.86, absolute difference 5.0%) but not for vacuum (odds ratio, 0.80, 95% confidence interval, 0.59-1.09) when compared with spontaneous vaginal delivery. Among women aged younger than 50 years, forceps also had increased risk for stress urinary incontinence (odds ratio, 1.76, 95% confidence interval, 1.20-2.60) when compared with vacuum. There was no association of stress or urgency urinary incontinence with mode of delivery in women aged 50 years or older.;CONCLUSION: For women aged younger than 50 years, forceps delivery is associated with significant increased long-term risk of stress urinary incontinence compared with other vaginal deliveries. Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2019	Tahtinen, RM;Cartwright, R;Vernooij, RWM;Rortveit, G;Hunskaar, S;Guyatt, GH;Tikkinen, KAO	American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology	10.1016/j.ajog.2018.10.034
Interobserver Agreement In Analysis Of Cardiotocograms Recorded During Trial Of Labor After Cesarean	Introduction: To examine interobserver agreement in intrapartum cardiotocography (CTG) classification in women undergoing trial of labor after a cesarean section (TOLAC) at term with or without complete uterine rupture. Materials and methods: Nineteen blinded and independent Danish obstetricians assessed CTG tracings from 47 women (174 individual pages) with a complete uterine rupture during TOLAC and 37 women (133 individual pages) with no uterine rupture during TOLAC. Individual pages with CTG tracings lasting at least 20 min were evaluated by three different assessors and counted as an individual case. The tracings were analyzed according to the modified version of the Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) guidelines elaborated for the use of STAN (ST-analysis). Occurrence of defined abnormalities was recorded and the tracings were classified as normal, suspicious, pathological, or preterminal. The interobserver agreement was evaluated using Fleiss' kappa. Results: Agreement on classification of a preterminal CTG was almost perfect. The interobserver agreement on normal, suspicious or pathological CTG was moderate to substantial. Regarding the presence of severe variable decelerations, the agreement was moderate. No statistical difference was found in the interobserver agreement between classification of tracings from women undergoing TOLAC with and without complete uterine rupture. Conclusions: The interobserver agreement on classification of CTG tracings from high-risk deliveries during TOLAC is best for assessment of a preterminal CTG and the poorest for the identification of severe variable decelerations.	2019	Caning, MM;Thisted, DLA;Amer-Wahlin, I;Laier, GH;Krebs, L	Journal of Maternal-Fetal & Neonatal Medicine	10.1080/14767058.2018.1472225
Gestational Weight Gain And Foetal Acidosis In Vaginal And Caesarean Deliveries: The Japan Environment And Children'S Study	Inappropriate gestational weight gain (GWG), either above or below the recommended values, has been associated with an increased risk of adverse obstetric outcomes. To evaluate the risks of GWG for foetal acidosis according to pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI) and mode of delivery, we analysed women with singleton pregnancies between 2011 and 2014 in the Japan Environment and Children's Study. Participants (n = 71,799) were categorised according to pre-pregnancy BMI. GWG was categorised into insufficient, appropriate, or excessive. Foetal acidosis was defined as umbilical artery pH (UmA-pH) < 7.20 or < 7.10. Multiple logistic regressions were performed for each BMI category to identify the risks of GWG for foetal acidosis, accounting for the mode of delivery. Excessive GWG was significantly associated with increased foetal acidosis in overweight women and in women whose pre-pregnancy BMI was 23.0-25.0 kg/m2 especially in those with vaginal deliveries. Conversely, excessive GWG was not significantly associated with increased foetal acidosis in obese women and in women whose pre-pregnancy BMI was >= 25.0 kg/m2.	2020	Murata, T;Kyozuka, H;Yamaguchi, A;Fukuda, T;Yasuda, S;Sato, A;Ogata, Y;Shinoki, K;Hosoya, M;Yasumura, S;Hashimoto, K;Nishigori, H;Fujimori, K	Scientific Reports	10.1038/s41598-020-77429-9
Early-Life Formation Of The Microbial And Immunological Environment Of The Human Airways	Crosstalk between immune cells and the microbiota in mucosal tissues can set an individual on a trajectory toward health or disease. Little is known about these early-life events in the human respiratory tract. We examined bacterial colonization and immune system maturation in the lower airways over the first year of life. The lower respiratory tract microbiota forms within the first 2 postnatal months. Within the first weeks, three microbial profiles are evident, broadly distinguished as dysbiotic or diverse, and representing different microbial virulence potentials, including proteolysis of immunoglobulin A (IgA) that is critical for mucosal defense. Delivery mode determines microbiota constituents in preterm, but not term, births. Gestational age is a key determinant of immune maturation, with airway cells progressively increasing expression of proallergic cytokine interleukin-33 and genes linked with IgA. These data reveal microbial and immunological development in human airways, and may inform early-life interventions to prevent respiratory diseases. Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2018	Pattaroni, C;Watzenboeck, ML;Schneidegger, S;Kieser, S;Wong, NC;Bernasconi, E;Pernot, J;Mercier, L;Knapp, S;Nicod, LP;Marsland, CP;Roth-Kleiner, M;Marsland, BJ	Cell Host & Microbe	10.1016/j.chom.2018.10.019
Treatment With Nitric Oxide In The Neonatal Intensive Care Unit Is Associated With Increased Risk Of Childhood Cancer	AIM: This study aimed to determine whether neonatal intensive care therapies increase the risk of carcinogenesis in childhood.;METHODS: This study used population-based data on 1 072 957 infants born in New South Wales, Australia, between 2000 and 2011 and multivariate logistic regression to examine any associations between therapies used in the neonatal intensive care unit and diagnoses of cancer until mid 2012.;RESULTS: A total of 1126 of 1 072 957 (0.1%) children were diagnosed with cancer. Cancer risk was significantly increased by preterm birth (gestation <37 weeks; adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 1.3 (95% confidence interval: 1.0-1.6), birth weight >=4 kg (aOR 1.4, 1.2-1.6) and caesarean delivery (aOR 1.2, 1.1-1.4). Extremely preterm (<28 weeks of gestation) infants were more likely to develop hepatic tumours (aOR 12.7, 3.3-48.3) than term infants. The only therapy used in the neonatal intensive care that was independently associated with an increased risk of cancer was nitric oxide (aOR 8.6, 4.3-17.4). Eight of the 790 (1%) infants treated with nitric oxide developed cancer (gestation range 30-41 weeks, age of cancer diagnosis: four months-five years).;CONCLUSION: Treatment with nitric oxide was associated with a higher risk of childhood cancer. These findings require further research. Copyright ©2018 Foundation Acta Paediatrica. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.	2018	Dixon, F;Ziegler, DS;Bajuk, B;Wright, I;Hilder, L;Abdel Latif, ME;Somanathan, A;Oei, JL	Acta Paediatrica	10.1111/apa.14436
Trends In Maternity Care Practice Skin-To-Skin Contact Indicators: United States, 2007-2015	BACKGROUND: Mother-infant skin-to-skin contact (SSC) immediately after birth helps transition infants to the post-uterine environment and increases the likelihood of breastfeeding initiation and duration. This study examines trends in U.S. maternity practices related to SSC, and variations by facility demographics.;METHODS: Data were from the Maternity Practices in Infant Nutrition and Care (mPINC) surveys (2007-2015), a biennial assessment of all U.S. maternity facilities. Facilities reported how often patients were encouraged to practice mother-infant SSC for >=30 minutes within 1 hour of uncomplicated vaginal birth and 2 hours of uncomplicated cesarean birth, and how often routine infant procedures are performed while in SSC. We calculated the percentage of maternity facilities reporting these indicators for >=90% of patients across the United States for each survey year. Estimates by facility characteristics (size, type, and state) were calculated for 2015 only.;RESULTS: The percentage of facilities reporting Most (>=90%) women, which were encouraged to practice early SSC, increased from 2007 to 2015 following both vaginal (40.4% to 83.0%) and cesarean (29.3% to 69.9%) births. The percentage of facilities reporting routine infant procedures were performed Almost always (>=90%), while mother and infant were SSC increased from 16.6% to 49.5% (2007 to 2015) for vaginal births and from 2.2% to 10.7% (2009 to 2015) for cesarean births. Variations in SSC practice by facility type, size, and state were noted.;CONCLUSIONS: Significant progress has been made in increasing hospital encouragement of early SSC for both vaginal and cesarean births. Continued efforts to support evidence-based maternity practices are needed.	2018	Boundy, EO;Perrine, CG;Barrera, CM;Li, R;Hamner, HC	Breastfeeding Medicine: The Official Journal of the Academy of Breastfeeding Medicine	10.1089/bfm.2018.0035
Skin To Skin Contact: Newborn Temperature Stability In The Operating Room	PURPOSE: The purpose of this project was to assess temperature stability in newborns undergoing early intraoperative skin-to-skin contact (SSC) after elective cesarean birth.;METHOD: This feasibility study examined electronic medical record data of 91 mother-baby dyads who participated in early intraoperative SSC after an elective cesarean birth. Infant axillary temperatures were obtained just before initiation and upon completion of intraoperative SSC.;RESULTS: The mean age of women in this sample was 35 (SD, 4.2) years. They were an average of 39 4/7 weeks gestation, and largely Caucasian 55% (n = 50) and Asian 30 (33%). Fifty-eight percent (n = 53) of infants were male, weighing an average of 3,566 g (SD, 401.83). Nineteen (21%) of infants demonstrated no temperature change pre to post SSC, with an increase noted in 32 (35%) infants, and a decrease in 40 (44%).;CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: Findings provide support for continued intraoperative SSC. Areas for improvement were also identified, for example, missing medical record data.	2018	Billner-Garcia, R;Spilker, A;Goyal, D	MCN, American Journal of Maternal Child Nursing	10.1097/NMC.0000000000000430
Urinary Bile Acid Profile Of Newborns Born By Cesarean Section Is Characterized By Oxidative Metabolism Of Primary Bile Acids: Limited Roles Of Fetal-Specific Cyp3A7 In Cholate Oxidations	This work aims to investigate how the bile acid metabolism of newborns differs from that of adults along the axis of primary, secondary, and tertiary bile acids (BAs). The total unconjugated BA profiles were quantitatively determined by enzyme digestion techniques in urine of 21 newborns born by cesarean section, 29 healthy parturient women, 30 healthy males, and 28 healthy nonpregnant females. As expected, because of a lack of developed gut microbiota, newborns exhibited poor metabolism of secondary BAs. Accordingly, the tertiary BAs contributed limitedly to the urinary excretion of BAs in newborns despite their tertiary-to-secondary ratios significantly increasing. As a result, the primary BAs of newborns underwent extensive oxidative metabolism, resulting in elevated urinary levels of some fetal-specific BAs, including 3-dehydroCA, 3beta,7alpha,12alpha-trihydroxy-5beta-cholan-24-oic acid, 3alpha,12-oxo-hydroxy-5beta-cholan-24-oic acid, and nine tetrahydroxy-cholan-24-oic acids (Tetra-BAs). Parturient women had significantly elevated urinary levels of tertiary BAs and fetal-specific BAs compared with female control, indicating that they may be excreted into amniotic fluid for maternal disposition. An in vitro metabolism assay in infant liver microsomes showed that four Tetra-BAs and 3-dehydroCA were hydroxylated metabolites of cholate, glycocholate, and particularly taurocholate. However, the recombinant cytochrome P450 enzyme assay found that the fetal-specific CYP3A7 did not contribute to these oxidation metabolisms as much as expected compared with CYP3A4. In conclusion, newborns show a BA metabolism pattern predominated by primary BA oxidations due to immaturity of secondary BA metabolism. Translational studies following this finding may bring new ideas and strategies for both pediatric pharmacology and diagnosis and treatment of perinatal cholestasis-associated diseases. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: The prenatal BA disposition is different from adults because of a lack of gut microbiota. However, how the BA metabolism of newborns differs from that of adults along the axis of primary, secondary, and tertiary BAs remains poorly defined. This work demonstrated that the urinary BA profiles of newborns born by cesarean section are characterized by oxidative metabolism of primary BAs, in which the fetal-specific CYP3A7 plays a limited role in the downstream oxidation metabolism of cholate. Copyright © 2020 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics.	2020	Wang, WX;Chen, L;Wang, GY;Zhang, JL;Tan, XW;Lin, QH;Chen, YJ;Zhang, J;Zhu, PP;Miao, J;Su, MM;Liu, CX;Jia, W;Lan, K	Drug Metabolism & Disposition	10.1124/dmd.120.000011
Fine Tuning Fear Of Childbirth: The Relationship Between Childbirth Fear Questionnaire Subscales And Demographic And Reproductive Variables	OBJECTIVE: The objective of the current study was to investigate the relationship between the newly developed Childbirth Fear Questionnaire (CFQ) and demographic and reproductive variables.;BACKGROUND: The CFQ was developed in an effort to improve measurement and understanding of women's childbirth fears. To our knowledge the CFQ is the only multidimensional measure of childbirth fears in which (a) multiple domains of childbirth fear are assessed and (b) individual subscales have been psychometrically developed.;METHODS: Participants were 643 pregnant women residing in English-speaking countries, recruited via online forums. Participants completed a set of questionnaires, including the multidimensional CFQ, via an online survey. Given the differences in childbirth fear between nulliparous and multiparous women, findings are stratified by parity.;RESULTS: Gestational age was largely unrelated to fear of childbirth. Age, income and education were negatively related to fear of childbirth. Assisted vaginal delivery and episiotomy in a previous pregnancy were positively associated with a fear of pain. Self-reported history of traumatic vaginal birth was associated with higher scores on all aspects of fear of childbirth. History of caesarean birth was not generally associated with increased childbirth fears, but women with a prior, self-reported traumatic caesarean birth reported more fear of future caesarean births.;CONCLUSIONS: Findings are consistent with previous reports of fear of childbirth. However, the CFQ provides increased specificity with respect to women's childbirth fears. This information is relevant to both education and treatment planning for pregnant women and women wishing to reproduce.	2018	Fairbrother, N;Thordarson, DS;Stoll, K	Journal of Reproductive & Infant Psychology	10.1080/02646838.2017.1396300
Maternal Anaemia After Delivery: Prevalence And Risk Factors	The purpose of this study was to assess the prevalence of postpartum anaemia and determine the clinical risk factors for this condition to provide a viable alternative to postpartum haemoglobin measurement. In total, 1415 patients at Hospital Universitario del Tajo, Madrid, who underwent postpartum haemoglobin testing were included, and risk factors for having an Hb level <10 g/dl were determined. We found that 29% of the mothers were anaemic, and birth canal lacerations, caesarean delivery, episiotomy and South American origin were identified as the main risk factors for this condition. When we examined the performance of each risk factor alone in the prediction of postpartum anaemia, none of them achieved a sensitivity of 30%. Selective screening of women who had any of these five risk factors resulted in 23% of cases remaining unidentified. Despite the high incidence and disease burden of this condition, the management of puerperal anaemia is not standardised, and this condition is not easy to predict. Universal screening should be considered in high-prevalence settings. Impact statement The World Health Organisation (WHO) describes the postnatal period as the most critical and yet most neglected phase in the lives of mothers and infants. It is a common knowledge that a woman's adjustment to life with her new infant is very difficult. This period, known as the puerperium, often involves poor sleep quality, pain and fatigue, if not other major complications. In this context, we must face the challenge of increasing breastfeeding rates, which is why health care providers should be aware of the medical and psychological needs of the new mother. This work reports that postpartum anaemia, a potentially preventable or treatable condition that can make it more difficult to resume everyday activities, is highly prevalent. It remains to be seen whether ensuring the appropriate diagnosis and treatment of anaemia after delivery will result in improvements in the physical and psychological well-being of obstetric patients.	2018	Medina Garrido, C;Leon, J;Romani Vidal, A	Journal of Obstetrics & Gynaecology	10.1080/01443615.2017.1328669
Effect Of Cesarean Section On Relapse Of Childhood Idiopathic Nephrotic Syndrome	In parallel with the increase in the prevalence of childhood chronic diseases, the rate of cesarean delivery has risen during the past decades. This study tested the hypothesis that children delivered by cesarean section (CS) have a higher risk of relapse of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (INS). Fifty-six children with INS were categorized into three groups. Group A consisted of patients with INS who had no relapses after the onset of INS; group B consisted of patients with INS who had infrequent relapse; and group C consisted of patients with INS who had frequent relapse. The number of enrolled patients in groups A, B, and C was 10, 14, and 32, respectively. The ratio of neonates delivered via CS was significantly higher in group C (37.5%, P < 0.001) than in groups A (0%) and B (7.1%). This study shows that CS is associated with an increased risk of relapse of childhood INS. Copyright © 2017 Japan Pediatric Society.	2017	Kimata, T;Kino, J;Yamanouchi, S;Suruda, C;Tsuji, S;Kaneko, K	Pediatrics International	10.1111/ped.13375
Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis In Relation To Perinatal And Maternal Characteristics: A Case Control Study	BACKGROUND: Existing data on associations between maternal and early childhood exposures and juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) risk is scant and inconsistent with previous studies showing potential role for prematurity, number of siblings and infections. We explored JIA and International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR) JIA categories in relation to selected infant (birthweight, size-for-gestational-age, gestational age), and maternal (parity, delivery type, prior fetal loss) characteristics that may be markers for exposures related to two pathways (hygiene hypothesis, microchimerism) potentially associated with autoimmune disorder occurrence.;METHODS: A case-control analysis with 1,234 JIA cases and 5,993 birth year-matched controls was conducted. Exposure information was obtained from WA state birth certificates. Multivariable logistic regression was used to estimate adjusted odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for associations with maternal and early life exposures for JIA and JIA categories.;RESULTS: Greater maternal parity was associated with a decreased OR for JIA (most marked for persistent oligoarticular JIA, OR 0.32, 95% CI 0.15; 0.71, p for trend = 0.0001). Prior fetal loss (except for oligoarticular JIA) was associated with an increased OR for JIA. Prematurity was associated with increased risk of enthesitis related arthritis (OR 1.9, 95% CI: 1.3-2.9) and rheumatoid factor positive polyarticular JIA (OR 2.2, 95% CI: 1.0-4.8).;CONCLUSIONS: We observed associations of selected maternal factors with JIA, some of which varied across JIA categories. The findings of decreased ORs for JIA in relation to greater maternal parity may be consistent with the hygiene and microchimerism hypotheses. Future studies with biomarkers relevant to these hypotheses will help elucidate any associations.	2017	Bell, SW;Shenoi, S;Nelson, JL;Bhatti, P;Mueller, BA	Pediatric Rheumatology Online Journal	10.1186/s12969-017-0167-z
Management Of Patients With Placenta Accreta In Association With Fever Following Vaginal Delivery	This study aims to analyze the clinical characteristics and to manage patients with retained placenta left in situ accompanied by fever following vaginal delivery.Twenty-one patients with retained placenta in association with fever following vaginal delivery were enrolled and managed at the maternity department of our university hospital between 2012 and 2014.All patients had risk factors for development of placenta accreta: previous cesarean sections (4/21), previous curettage (15/21), or uterine malformations (7/21). Placenta accreta was diagnosed following vaginal delivery in all patients, and manual removal of the placenta was attempted in 20 of 21 patients. The placenta left in situ was partial in 19 patients and was complete in 2 patients. All patients were managed with a multidisciplinary approach. Mifepristone was administrated to 16 patients. Fourteen patients received uterine artery embolization. Eleven patients were treated with ultrasound-guided curettage within 24 hours following delivery. Seven patients needed delayed-hysterectomy due to development of complications. Intrauterine operations during labor are not recommended if placenta accreta occurs in the fundus and/or in the cornual region of the uterus. Antibiotic treatment, interventional therapy, and ultrasound-guided curettage within 24 hours following vaginal delivery are the recommended conservative management strategies.	2017	Zhong, L;Chen, D;Zhong, M;He, Y;Su, C	Medicine	10.1097/MD.0000000000006279
Predictors And Measurement Of Satisfaction With Postpartum Care In A Government Hospital	In this study, the predictors of satisfaction with postpartum care at a government hospital were evaluated. The descriptive research sample included 300 mothers in their postpartum period. Data were collected using a questionnaire and the Postpartum Nursing Care Evaluation Scale. The regression analysis undertaken showed that mothers who received prenatal care had a significantly higher evaluation score (compared to those who had not received prenatal care), as had mothers who had a caesarean delivery (compared to vaginal birth), as well as those who had received support from friends and relatives during their postpartum period (compared to those who did not receive such support). Our recommendation is that postpartum nursing care be improved for mothers who deliver vaginally, have not received prenatal care, were unintentionally pregnant, and have problems with breastfeeding. The results will help nurses who work with an international population of postpartum women to give professional, systematic, and patient-centered care to postpartum mothers in order to increase patient satisfaction. Copyright © 2017 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.	2017	Zeyneloglu, S;Kisa, S;Ozberk, H;Badem, A	Nursing & Health Sciences	10.1111/nhs.12327
Standards Of Admission Capillary Blood Glucose Levels In Cesarean Born Neonates	BACKGROUND: Neonatal hypoglycemia (NH) and cutoffs remain undefined. Our center screens all cesarean-delivered (CD) neonates for NH. We sought to define standards of admission capillary blood glucose levels (ACBGLs) in CD neonates who were at the lowest risk for hypoglycemia.;METHODS: Of 4947 neonates, 519 met all 14 inclusion criteria. These highly-selected neonates were apparently the healthiest, least-stressed, earliest to be admitted to nursery and at lowest-risk for hypoglycemia. For each CD, cord blood gases and glucose were determined and each infant was screened for blood glucose at nursery admission.;RESULTS: Sampling age was 41.6+/-15.3 minutes, a mean ACBGL of 52.3+/-10.7 mg/dL, and percentiles as follows: 1st percentile, 29.2; 3rd, 33.6; 5th, 35.0; 10th, 39.0; 25th, 46.0; 50th, 51.0; 75th, 58.0; 90th, 67.0; 95th, 71.0; 97th, 73.0, and 99th, 84.4. ACBGL rose significantly with increasing gestational age (P=0.004), increasing cord blood glucose (P<0.001), decreasing cord blood pH (P<0.001) and decreasing sampling age (P=0.027).;CONCLUSIONS: Setting uniform ACBGL cutoffs for NH definition is unachievable due to the enormous heterogeneity among newborns. Hence, we provide group-based ACBGL standards in CD neonates. We propose setting ACBGL cutoffs for use in CD neonates: 1) hypoglycemia: ACBGL <5th percentile (<35 mg/dL); and 2) interventional hypoglycemia: ACBGL <1st percentile (<30 mg/dL).	2017	Smolkin, T;Ulanovsky, I;Carasso, P;Makhoul, IR	World Journal of Pediatrics	10.1007/s12519-017-0016-7
"Client-Related Factors Associated With A ""Less Than Good"" Experience Of Midwifery Care During Childbirth In The Netherlands"	BACKGROUND: A less than good experience during childbirth can affect a mother's early interaction with her child and may significantly influence a woman's emotional well-being. In this study, we focus on clients who experienced midwifery care provided during childbirth as less than good care. The aim of this study was to understand the relationship between client-related factors and the experience of midwifery care during childbirth to improve this care.;METHODS: This study was part of the DELIVER study where mothers report on the care they received. We used generalized estimation equations to control for correlations within midwife practices. Forward multivariate logistic regression analyses were conducted to model the client-related factors associated with the experienced midwifery care during childbirth.;RESULTS: We included the responses of 2,377 women. In the multivariable logistic regression model, odds of reporting less than good care were significantly higher for women who experienced an unplanned cesarean birth (OR 2.21 [CI 1.19-4.09]), an instrumental birth (OR 1.55 [CI 1.08-2.23]), and less control during the dilation phase (OR 0.98 [CI 0.97-0.99]) and pushing phase (OR 0.98 [CI 0.97-0.99]).;DISCUSSION: Birth-related factors were more likely than maternal characteristics to be associated with the experience of midwifery care during childbirth. We conclude that there is room for midwives to improve their care for women during childbirth particularly in improving the patient centeredness of the care provider, using strategies to enhance sense of control, and focusing on the particular needs of those who experience instrumental vaginal or unplanned cesarean births. Copyright © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	2017	Baas, CI;Wiegers, TA;de Cock, TP;Erwich, JJ;Spelten, ER;de Boer, MR;Hutton, EK	Birth	10.1111/birt.12266
Hypothyroxinemia And Risk For Transient Tachypnea Of Newborn	Transient tachypnea of newborn is associated with hypothyroxinemia in animals via decreased stimulation of beta-adrenergic receptors and Na-K-ATPase activity. In 26 549 term neonates, serum total thyroxine <14 ug/dL, male sex, and elective cesarean delivery were significantly associated with greater risk for transient tachypnea of newborn. Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2016	Ulanovsky, I;Smolkin, T;Almashanu, S;Mashiach, T;Makhoul, IR	Journal of Pediatrics	10.1016/j.jpeds.2016.08.061
Leptin, Il-6 And Tnf-Alpha Levels In Umbilical Cord Blood Of Healthy Term Newborns In Relation To Mode Of Delivery	In the development of the foetal immune system, cytokines play an important role in its function. Therefore, we sought to determine whether the mode of delivery affects the expression of leptin, IL-6 and TNF-alpha in umbilical cord blood in healthy term newborns. We collected 125 samples of umbilical cord blood to analyse leptin, IL-6 y TNF-alpha levels with multiplex immunoassay (MIA). The samples were classified according to mode of delivery: vaginal delivery (VD) and caesarean section (CS). Leptin and IL-6 had higher concentrations in umbilical cord blood in VD than in CS: 42.55 ng/ml (11.92-104.28) versus 35.20 ng/ml (3.26-9326.76), p = 0.039; 9.32 pg/ml (1.13-2020.31) versus 3.81 pg/ml (0.52-834.69) p < 0.001, respectively. Also, a weak correlation between TNF-alpha and IL-6 was found (r = 0.238, p = 0.007). The most important finding in our study was the differential concentrations of leptin and IL-6 according to mode of delivery.	2016	Trevino-Garza, C;Villarreal-Martinez, L;Estrada-Zuniga, CM;Leal-Trevino, M;Rodriguez-Balderrama, I;Nieto-Sanjuanero, A;Cardenas-Del Castillo, B;Montes-Tapia, FF;de la O-Cavazos, M	Journal of Obstetrics & Gynaecology	10.3109/01443615.2016.1148128
Delivery-Associated Presence Of Supramolecular Fibronectin-Fibrin Complexes In Puerperal And Cord Plasma	Objective: The variable fibronectin (FN) molecular forms are known to be engaged in coagulation and fibrinolysis pathways as well as tissue remodeling and repair processes. Some of them seem to be indispensable molecules within intensive biological processes associated with delivery. The aim of the study was to evaluate the FN molecular status in maternal and cord plasma after vaginal birth and cesarean section (C-section). Materials and methods: The study included nonpregnant women's plasma samples (n = 31) and puerperal and cord plasma samples collected from 49 mothers who delivered healthy newborns at term by vaginal birth (n = 25) and C-section (n = 24). The maternal and cord plasma FN concentrations and presence and relative ratios of different FN-fibrin complexes were determined by ELISA and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) -agarose immunoblotting, respectively. Results: FN concentration in puerperal plasma after vaginal birth (232.08 +/- 71.8 mg/L) and C-section (228.17 +/- 71.2 mg/L) was significantly higher than in the plasma of nonpregnant women (190.00 +/- 48.75 mg/L). In contrast, FN concentration in cord plasma of the C-section group (101.95 +/- 30.3 mg/L) was significantly lower than that of the vaginal birth group (121.80 +/- 22.2 mg/L). Immunoblotting of puerperal and cord plasma distinguished the most abundant dimeric plasma FN form, the 220-280-kDa FN degradation products and 750-1900-kDa FN-fibrin complexes, which occurred more frequently and in higher amounts in puerperal and cord plasma groups than the nonpregnant women group, although independently of the mode of delivery. Conclusions: Occurrence and relative amount of delivery-associated FN-fibrin complexes in both puerperal and cord plasmas might be bound with the physiological adaptive mechanisms reducing the risk of hemorrhage and intensive remodeling and repair processes after delivery.	2019	Lis-Kuberka, J;Berghausen-Mazur, M;Katnik-Prastowska, I;Orczyk-Pawilowicz, M	Journal of Maternal-Fetal & Neonatal Medicine	10.1080/14767058.2018.1468433
Is Prenatal Urethral Descent A Risk Factor For Urinary Incontinence During Pregnancy And The Postpartum Period?	INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: Obstetric trauma during childbirth is considered a major risk factor for postpartum urinary incontinence (UI), particularly stress urinary incontinence. Our aim was to investigate the relation between postpartum UI, mode of delivery, and urethral descent, and to define a group of women who are particularly at risk of postnatal UI.;METHODS: A total of 186 women were included their first pregnancy. Validated questionnaires about urinary symptoms during pregnancy, 2 and 12 months after delivery, were administered. Urethral descent was assessed clinically and by ultrasound at inclusion. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to determine the risk factors for UI during pregnancy, at 2 months and 1 year after first delivery.;RESULTS: The prevalence of UI was 38.6, 46.5, 35.6, and 34.4 % at inclusion, late pregnancy, 2 months postpartum, and 1 year postpartum respectively. No significant association was found between UI at late pregnancy and urethral descent assessed clinically or by ultrasound. The only risk factor for UI at 2 months postpartum was UI at inclusion (OR 6.27 [95 % CI 2.70-14.6]). The risk factors for UI at 1 year postpartum were UI at inclusion (6.14 [2.22-16.9]), body mass index (BMI), and urethral descent at inclusion, assessed clinically (7.21 [2.20-23.7]) or by ultrasound. The mode of delivery was not associated with urethral descent.;CONCLUSIONS: Prenatal urethral descent and UI during pregnancy are risk factors for UI at 1 year postpartum. These results indicate that postnatal UI is more strongly influenced by susceptibility factors existing before first delivery than by the mode of delivery.	2016	Pizzoferrato, AC;Fauconnier, A;Bader, G;de Tayrac, R;Fort, J;Fritel, X	International Urogynecology Journal	10.1007/s00192-015-2918-z
Mode Of Delivery At Periviability And Early Childhood Neurodevelopment	OBJECTIVE: Little is known regarding the impact of mode of delivery in the periviable period. Even less is understood regarding the effect of mode of delivery on neurodevelopment. Our objective is to determine if the mode of delivery at time of periviability impacts Bayley II scores at 2 years of age.;STUDY DESIGN: This is a secondary analysis of a randomized, controlled trial of magnesium sulfate for the prevention of cerebral palsy, a multicenter trial where women at imminent risk for delivery were assigned to receive magnesium sulfate or placebo. For this secondary analysis we included nonanomalous singleton gestations delivered between 23 4/7 and 25 6/7 weeks. We excluded women with missing exposure or outcome data. The primary exposure of interest was mode of delivery. The primary outcome was Bayley II scores <70 (mental and motor) at 2 years of age. Log binomial regression was used to control for possible confounders including gestational age at delivery, presentation at time of delivery, chorioamnionitis, years of maternal education, maternal body mass index, and original study treatment group.;RESULTS: A total of 158 women met inclusion criteria. In all, 91 had a vaginal delivery and 67 had a cesarean delivery. Exposure to magnesium sulfate, maternal education, chorioamnionitis, years of maternal education, and maternal body mass index were similar in both groups. There was no difference in either mental or motor Bayley II scores <70 or <85 by mode of delivery in either univariable or multivariable analysis.;CONCLUSION: There is no detectable difference in Bayley II scores between mode of delivery at time of periviability. This adds to the literature supporting obstetric indications dictating mode of delivery at this gestational age. Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2015	Obican, SG;Small, A;Smith, D;Levin, H;Drassinower, D;Gyamfi-Bannerman, C	American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology	10.1016/j.ajog.2015.06.047
Cesarean Scar Ectopic Pregnancy: Imaging Features, Current Treatment Options, And Clinical Outcomes	PURPOSE: Cesarean scar ectopic pregnancy (CSEP) is considered to be quite rare, but the frequency is increasing given the increasing number of cesarean sections being performed, along with increased detection due to widespread use of early endovaginal sonography. The normal sonographic and magnetic resonance findings of this phenomenon will be discussed, including the appearance of complications associated with abnormal placentation, such as the placenta accreta spectrum. Cases of CSEP at our institution will be illustrated, along with clinical presentations and treatment outcomes.;METHODS: The study included women who were diagnosed with a CSEP in the first trimester, which was confirmed by ultrasound. The clinical presentations, imaging findings, and treatment outcomes of these pregnancies were recorded.;RESULTS: In our series, treatment ranged from no intervention with fetal demise on short-term follow-up ultrasound to viable near-term deliveries requiring cesarean section, urgent blood products, and emergent surgery. The majority of our cases 75% (15 of 20) underwent successful early first trimester termination by a combination of systemic methotrexate administration, ultrasound-guided injection of embryocidal agents, and/or surgery.;CONCLUSION: Early imaging recognition and diagnosis of CSEP is critically important to minimize maternal complications, maintain treatment options, and potentially preserve future fertility.	2015	Riaz, RM;Williams, TR;Craig, BM;Myers, DT	Abdominal Imaging	10.1007/s00261-015-0472-2
Management Of Anesthesia And Delivery In Women With Chiari I Malformations	OBJECTIVE: To estimate whether vaginal delivery or neuraxial anesthesia poses a risk of neurologic deterioration in women with uncorrected Chiari I malformation.;METHODS: To assemble this case series, electronic record databases were used to identify women with Chiari I malformation who delivered on two busy tertiary care obstetric services over a 5-year period from January 2010 through December 2015. Women who had undergone surgical decompression were not included in the study. The size of the Chiari malformation, neurologic symptoms before delivery, mode of delivery, anesthetic method used, and neurologic complications were recorded.;RESULTS: Ninety-five deliveries in 63 patients were identified. The size of the Chiari malformation was 9.3+/-4.3 mm (mean+/-SD). In 58 pregnancies, women reported no headaches; in 36 they did. There was no association between the size of the Chiari malformation and the incidence of headache. Forty-four neonates were delivered by cesarean delivery and 51 were delivered vaginally. No neurologic deterioration occurred in either group. Neuraxial anesthesia was administered before 62 deliveries. No neurologic complications occurred. None of the women who delivered vaginally or received neuraxial anesthesia had signs of increased intracranial pressure. The upper limit of the 95% CI for the risk of neurologic complications from our study of 95 deliveries was 3.1%.;CONCLUSION: This case series support that in patients with Chiari I malformation who have no signs of increased intracranial pressure, the mode of delivery should be based on obstetric rather than neurologic considerations. The absence of complications in patients who received epidural or spinal anesthesia suggests that these procedures should be made available to women with Chiari I malformation.	2018	Waters, JFR;O'Neal, MA;Pilato, M;Waters, S;Larkin, JC;Waters, JH	Obstetrics & Gynecology	10.1097/AOG.0000000000002943
Birth And Motherhood: Childbirth Experience And Mothers' Perceptions Of Themselves And Their Babies	Childbirth is a major experience in a woman's life, but the relation between childbirth experiences and later mother-infant outcomes has been understudied. This study examined the relation between mode of delivery and subjective birth experience (e.g., perception of control, social support during labor and delivery), and mothers' descriptions of their babies and their maternal self-esteem, both powerful predictors of maternal caregiving behavior. This study had three questions: (a) Do mode of delivery and subjective birth experience predict mothers' descriptions of their babies and maternal self-esteem? (b) Are the effects of mode of delivery on mothers' descriptions and maternal self-esteem mediated by subjective birth experience? (c) Does infant age moderate any of these pathways? The sample consisted of 269 mothers of full-term, healthy infants who gave birth in the year prior to the study. Mode of delivery showed a direct effect on how mothers describe their babies, but not maternal self-esteem, which was not mediated by subjective birth experience. Subjective birth experience had direct effects on both outcomes. Infant age did not moderate any of these pathways. Results point to the subjective aspects of childbirth as important components of women's experience of labor and delivery. Implications are discussed. Copyright © 2015 Michigan Association for Infant Mental Health.	2015	Reisz, S;Jacobvitz, D;George, C	Infant Mental Health Journal	10.1002/imhj.21500
Cesarean Delivery And Risk Of Infant Leukemia: A Report From The Children'S Oncology Group	Background: Studies have reported increased risks of pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) among children born by cesarean delivery (CD). However, no previous study has examined the impact of CD on risk of infant leukemia specifically. Methods: In this study, 443 infants diagnosed with acute leukemia, including both ALL and acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), were identified at Children's Oncology Group institutions between January 1996 and December 2006; 324 controls frequency matched by year of birth were identified though random digit dialing and random selection from U.S. birth registries. Using interview data and, for a subset of participants, medical record data, we analyzed CD overall and by indications that likely resulted in pre-labor CD (PLCD) or emergency CD (ECD). Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for risk of ALL and AML were estimated using multivariable unconditional logistic regression models, adjusted for year of birth, birth weight, and maternal race. Results: We observed an increased point estimate for the association between CD and ALL (OR, 1.52 and 95% CI, 1.02-2.25). We did not observe an association between CD and AML (OR, 1.02 and 95% CI, 0.64-1.62). In analyses of indication for CD, we observed elevated effect estimates for the associations of both PLCD and ECD and infant ALL. Conclusions: Our analysis suggests an increased risk of infant ALL following CD, including both PLCD and ECD. Altered microbiota colonization may be involved in development of leukemia in infants, but clear biological mechanisms have yet to be determined. Impact: This study provides the first in-depth examination of CD and infant leukemia. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev; 27(4); 473-8. ©2018 AACR. Copyright ©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.	2018	Marcotte, EL;Richardson, MR;Roesler, MA;Spector, LG	Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention	10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-17-0778
Post-Traumatic Amenorrhea: The Role Of Diagnostic And Operative Hysteroscopy In The Prevention, Diagnosis, Differential Diagnosis And Treatment	AIM: The aim of the study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness of the selective removal of residual intrauterine trophoblastic tissue by using a hysteroscopic procedure, especially in the prevention of the Intra-Uterine Adhesion's Syndrome.;METHODS: Seventy-six patients had an Asherman's Syndrome: 5 cases after laparotomic myomectomy, 1 after caesarean section, 2 after hysteroscopic myomectomy, 10 after VIP, 1 with a severe vaginal endometriosis, 1 after conisation, 4 after a post-partum hemorrhage due to coagulopathy or uterine atony, 20 cases after D&C because of PPH due to placental retention, 26 after repetitive D&Cs because of AUB due to post abortion chorial residues' retention, 6 cases after D&C for post menopausal AUB. Thirty-six patients presented AUB due to chorioplacental residues retention: 14 cases after a vaginal delivery or a caesarean section, 4 after VIP, 18 cases after repetitive D&Cs for incomplete or internal spontaneous abortion. Complete physical examination, transvaginal ultrasonography and operative hysteroscopy was offered as first treatment to all patients. Surgical treatment of IUA depends on the type (I-IV) and is based on the section of synechiae, liberation of the uterine cavity and tubal recesses, recovery of the residual endometrium to restore the physiology of the reproductive tract. Our technique to remove the chorioplacental residues is based on: correct use of loops and electric currents, enucleation by cold loops of the base of the placental implant, and to single out the level of miometrial infiltration.;RESULTS: After treatment we have noticed: two hysterectomies (for persistent AUB after myomectomy and for severe bleeding after dehiscence of a C. section), restoration of regular menstruations in 94.6% of patients (6 women in menopause), disappearance of pelvic pain and dysmenorrhea in all cases (100%), 8 pregnancies of the 9 women who were wanting child after hysteroscopic synechiolysis (88.9%).;CONCLUSION: According to the present study, the best way to prevent IUA is to make D&C for abortion, avoiding waiting longer than 24 hours, perform a D&C and then a diagnostic hysteroscopy after PPH in symptomatic women, reserve D&Cs only for a PPH, or an incomplete abortion, limit to only one D&C, always make a diagnostic hysteroscopy after D&C and uterine plugging for PPH.	2014	Pulcinella, R;Giannone, L;Candelori, E;Giannone, E;Patacchiola, F	Minerva Ginecologica	
Development Of A Predictive Model For Skin-To-Skin Contact Immediately After Birth: A Cross-Sectional Study	The aim of this study was to develop and validate a predictive model for the establishment of skin-to-skin contact immediately after birth. A descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted during the last trimester of 2022 and the first trimester of 2023 with women who had given birth in Spain. A questionnaire containing sociodemographic, psychosocial, and health variables referring to the mother and the newborn, as well as the Bond and Attachment questionnaire (VAMF, for its name in Spanish) for the analysis of the mother-child bond and attachment, were administered. A multivariate analysis was performed, and areas under the ROC curve (AUC) with their 95% confidence intervals (CI) and the predictive characteristics of these models were estimated. In total, 1077 women participated. The prevalence of early skin-to-skin contact after delivery was 50.2% (468) in the derivation cohort and 49.8% (464) in the validation cohort. Multivariate analysis showed that prematurity, type of delivery, and birth experience were statistically significant, so they were included in the model (p <= 0.05). The predictive ability (AUC ROC) was good in both the derivation cohort, yielding 0.92 (95% CI: 0.89-0.95), and in the validation cohort, yielding 0.89 (95% CI: 0.85-0.93). This study developed a predictive model identifying factors facilitating early skin-to-skin contact between a mother and her newborn immediately after birth.Copyright © 2024 by the authors.	2024	Diaz-Ogallar, M.A.;Hernandez-Martinez, A.;Linares-Abad, M.;Martinez-Galiano, J.M.	Children	10.3390/children11050577
Psychometric Evaluation Of 5- And 4-Item Versions Of The Latch Breastfeeding Assessment Tool During The Initial Postpartum Period Among A Multiethnic Population	OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the internal consistency, structural validity, sensitivity and specificity of the 5- and 4-item versions of the LATCH assessment tool among a multiethnic population in Singapore.;METHODS: The study was a secondary analysis of a subset of data (n = 907) from our previous breastfeeding survey from 2013 to 2014. The internal consistency of the LATCH was examined using Cronbach's alpha. The structural validity was assessed using an exploratory factor analysis (EFA), and the proposed factors were confirmed by confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) using separate samples. Receiver operating characteristic analysis was used to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the LATCH score thresholds for predicting non-exclusive breastfeeding.;RESULTS: The Cronbach's alpha values of the 5- and 4-item LATCH assessments were 0.70 and 0.74, respectively. The EFA demonstrated a one-factor structure for the 5- and 4-item LATCH assessments among a randomized split of 334 vaginally delivered women. Two CFA of the 4-item LATCH demonstrated better fit indices of the models compared to the two CFA of the 5-item LATCH among another randomized split of 335 vaginally delivered women and 238 cesarean delivered women. Using cutoffs of 5.5 and 3.5 were recommended when predicting non-exclusive breastfeeding for 5- and 4-item versions of the LATCH assessment among vaginally delivered women (n = 669), with satisfactory sensitivities (94% and 95%), low specificities (0% and 2%), low positive predictive values (25%) and negative predictive values (20% and 47%). A cutoff of 5.5 was recommended to predict non-exclusive breastfeeding for 5- and 4-item versions among cesarean delivered women (n = 238) with satisfactory sensitivities (93% and 98%), low specificities (4% and 9%), low positive predictive values (41%) and negative predictive values (65% and 75%). Therefore, the tool has good sensitivity but poor specificity, positive and negative predictive values.;CONCLUSIONS: We found that the 4-item version demonstrated sound psychometric properties compared to the 5-item version. Health professionals can use the 4-item LATCH as a clinical tool because it is a concise, easy-to-use and valid tool for assessing breastfeeding techniques among a multiethnic population.	2016	Lau, Y;Htun, TP;Lim, PI;Ho-Lim, S;Klainin-Yobas, P	PLoS ONE [Electronic Resource]	10.1371/journal.pone.0154331
Unravelling The Enigma Of Impacted Fetal Heads: Exploring Causes, Caesarean Section Techniques, And Maternal-Fetal Outcomes In A Comprehensive Labor Study	Background and Objective: The deeply impacted foetal head refers to the situation in which the fetal head cannot be delivered by usual manoeuvres during caesarean delivery because the head impacted deep within maternal pelvis and it is associated with increased maternal and foetal morbidity. Therefore, the primary objective of this case study is to identify the causes and associated risks of the deeply impacted head during cesarean delivery. Method(s): in this study, 200 pregnant females with a singleton foetus whose head was deeply impacted in the pelvis and underwent cesarean section at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Sultania Zanana Hospital & Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal were enrolled for a period of 1 year (1 January 2021-January 2022) for observational studies. Result(s): the most common risk factor associated with an impacted foetal head was primigravida followed by malposition of foetal head. Whereas the most common cause of the deeply impacted head which was observed was Deep transverse arrest of the head. Conclusion(s): the current study found various types of feto-maternal complications associated with deeply impacted heads during labor and how those complications can be arrested in advance by incorporating different techniques for foetal delivery.Copyright © 2024, Dr. Yashwant Research Labs Pvt. Ltd.. All rights reserved.	2024	Pratibha, T.;Soni, S.;Kumar, A.;Dhakad, A.	International Journal of Pharmaceutical and Clinical Research	
Stria Gravidarum: Is It A Predictor Of Intra-Abdominal Adhesions Or Not?	Introduction: Caesarean section (CS) is a common obstetric procedure worldwide, and its rate has increased in recent times. Women with repeat cesarean sections are susceptible to postoperative complications such as injury to organs, vessels, fetus or postoperative obstruction requiring repeat surgeries. The reason for this could be intraperitoneal adhesions. Striae gravidarum (SG), characterized by linear skin changes, is a common pregnancy complication caused by dermal damage. The study aims to assess the role of SG in predicting intra-uterine adhesions in repeat caesarean sections. Material(s) and Method(s): A total of 100 pregnant females with one or more caesarean sections participated voluntarily in a prospective, observational study conducted at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Geetanjali Medical College and Hospital, Udaipur. Preoperatively, women were graded for striae gravidarum using Davy's scoring, and intra-abdominal adhesions were classified intraoperatively as per Modified Blauer's classification. The collected data was analyzed using Microsoft Excel 2016. Result(s): The mean age of the participants was 26.6 years (SD+/-3.42). 86% had previous one CS, 12% had previous two CS, and 2% had previous three CS. All study participants (n=100) had striae gravidarum. Adhesions were present in 87% (n=87) of study subjects. The study found no significant correlation between SG and intra-abdominal adhesions. Factors such as age, parity, and mode of delivery showed no influence on the severity of SG. There was, however, a significant relationship between parity, past cesareans, inter-pregnancy gap, and intra-abdominal adhesions. Conclusion(s): Finally, SG is not a reliable predictor of intra-abdominal adhesions in recurrent caesarean procedures.Copyright © 2024, Dr. Yashwant Research Labs Pvt. Ltd. All rights reserved.	2024	Sharma, N.;Vegada, D.;Gandhi, V.S.;Shah, P.K.	International Journal of Pharmaceutical and Clinical Research	
Human Milk Microbiota Profiles In Relation To Birthing Method, Gestation And Infant Gender	BACKGROUND: Human milk is an important source of bacteria for the developing infant and has been shown to influence the bacterial composition of the neonate, which in turn can affect disease risk later in life. Very little is known about what factors shape the human milk microbiome. The goal of the present study was to examine the milk microbiota from a range of women who delivered vaginally or by caesarean (C) section, who gave birth to males or females, at term or preterm.;METHODS: Milk was collected from 39 Caucasian Canadian women, and microbial profiles were analyzed by 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequencing using the Illumina platform.;RESULTS: A diverse community of milk bacteria was found with the most dominant phyla being Proteobacteria and Firmicutes and at the genus level, Staphylococcus, Pseudomonas, Streptococcus and Lactobacillus. Comparison of bacterial profiles between preterm and term births, C section (elective and non-elective) and vaginal deliveries, and male and female infants showed no statistically significant differences.;CONCLUSIONS: The study revealed the diverse bacterial types transferred to newborns. We postulate that there may be a fail-safe mechanism whereby the mother is ready to pass along her bacterial imprint irrespective of when and how the baby is born.	2016	Urbaniak, C;Angelini, M;Gloor, GB;Reid, G	Microbiome	10.1186/s40168-015-0145-y
Newborn Urinary Metabolic Signatures Of Prematurity And Other Disorders: A Case Control Study	This work assesses the urinary metabolite signature of prematurity in newborns by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, while establishing the role of possible confounders and signature specificity, through comparison to other disorders. Gender and delivery mode are shown to impact importantly on newborn urine composition, their analysis pointing out at specific metabolite variations requiring consideration in unmatched subject groups. Premature newborns are, however, characterized by a stronger signature of varying metabolites, suggestive of disturbances in nucleotide metabolism, lung surfactants biosynthesis and renal function, along with enhancement of tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle activity, fatty acids oxidation, and oxidative stress. Comparison with other abnormal conditions (respiratory depression episode, large for gestational age, malformations, jaundice and premature rupture of membranes) reveals that such signature seems to be largely specific of preterm newborns, showing that NMR metabolomics can retrieve particular disorder effects, as well as general stress effects. These results provide valuable novel information on the metabolic impact of prematurity, contributing to the better understanding of its effects on the newborn's state of health.	2016	Diaz, SO;Pinto, J;Barros, AS;Morais, E;Duarte, D;Negrao, F;Pita, C;Almeida Mdo, C;Carreira, IM;Spraul, M;Gil, AM	Journal of Proteome Research	10.1021/acs.jproteome.5b00977
Neutrophil Chemotaxis In Cord Blood Of Term And Preterm Neonates Is Reduced In Preterm Neonates And Influenced By The Mode Of Delivery And Anaesthesia	Bacterial infections, even without any perinatal risk factors, are common in newborns, especially in preterm neonates. The aim of this study was to evaluate possible impairment of neutrophil chemotaxis in term and preterm neonates compared with adults as well as neonates with different modes of delivery and anaesthesia. We analysed the expression of the adhesion molecule L-Selectin as well as shape change, spontaneous and N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (fMLP)-induced transmigration of neutrophils in a flow cytometric assay of chemotaxis after spontaneous delivery with Cesarian Section (CS) under spinal anaesthesia (mepivacaine, sufentanil), epidural anaesthesia (ropivacaine or bupivacaine, sufentanil) or general anaesthesia (ketamine, thiopental, succinylcholine). Chemokinesis was higher (p=0.008) in cord blood neutrophils than in the adult ones, whereas those could be more stimulated by fMLP (p=0.02). After vaginal delivery neutrophils showed a higher spontaneous and fMLP-stimulated chemotactic response compared to neonates after CS without labor. Comparing different types of anaesthesia for CS, spinal anaesthesia resulted in less impairment on chemotaxis than general anaesthesia or epidural anaesthesia. The new flow cytometric assay of neutrophil chemotaxis is an appropriate and objective method to analyse functional differences even in very small volumes of blood, essential in neonatology. Term neonates do not show reduced chemotaxis compared to adults. Preterm neonates present with reduced chemotaxis and chemokinesis, confirming the well known deficits in their neutrophil function. The side effects of maternal drugs on the neonatal immune system have to be considered especially when the immune response is already impaired, as in preterm infants.	2015	Birle, A;Nebe, CT;Hill, S;Hartmann, K;Poeschl, J;Koch, L	PLoS ONE [Electronic Resource]	10.1371/journal.pone.0120341
The Effect Of Dietary Estimates Calculated Using Food Frequency Questionnaires On Micronuclei Formation In European Pregnant Women: A Newgeneris Study	The use of biomarkers of early genetic effects, predictive for cancer, such as micronuclei (MN) in lymphocytes, may help to investigate the association between diet and cancer. We hypothesised that the presence of mutagens in the diet may increase MN formation. A 'pooled' standardised analysis was performed by applying the same experimental protocol for the cytokinesis block micronucleus assay in 625 young healthy women after delivery from five European study populations (Greece, Denmark, UK, Spain and Norway). We assessed MN frequencies in mono- and binucleated T-lymphocytes (MNMONO and MNBN) and the cytokinesis blocked proliferation index using a semi-automated image analysis system. Food frequency questionnaires (FFQs) were used to estimate intake of fatty acids and a broad range of immunotoxic and genotoxic/carcinogenic compounds through the diet. Pooled difference based on delivery type revealed higher MNMONO frequencies in caesarean than in vaginal delivery (P = 0.002). Statistical analysis showed a decrease in MNMONO frequencies with increasing calculated omega-6 PUFA concentrations and a decrease in MNBN frequencies with increasing calculated omega-3 PUFA concentrations. The expected toxic compounds estimated by FFQs were not associated with MN formation in mothers after delivery. In pregnant women, an omega-3 and -6 rich diet estimated by FFQ is associated with lower MN formation during pregnancy and delivery. Copyright © The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the UK Environmental Mutagen Society. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.	2014	Vande Loock, K;Botsivali, M;Zangogianni, M;Anderson, D;Baumgartner, A;Fthenou, E;Chatzi, L;Marcos, R;Agramunt, S;Namork, E;Granum, B;Knudsen, LE;Nielssen, JK;Meltzer, HM;Haugen, M;Kyrtopoulos, SA;Decordier, I;Plas, G;Roelants, M;Merlo, F;Kleinjans, J;Kogevinas, M;Kirsch-Volders, M	Mutagenesis	10.1093/mutage/geu052
Maternal Plasma Levels Of Cell-Free Beta-Hcg Mrna As A Prenatal Diagnostic Indicator Of Placenta Accrete	OBJECTIVE: Several biomarkers, including maternal serum creatinine kinase and alpha-fetoprotein, have been described as potential tools for the diagnosis of placental abnormalities. This study aimed to determine whether maternal plasma mRNA levels of the beta subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin (beta-HCG) could predict placenta accreta prenatally.;METHODS: Sixty-eight singleton pregnant women with prior cesarean deliveries (CDs) were classified into three groups: normal placentation (35 women, control group); placenta previa alone (21 women, placenta previa group); and both placenta previa and placenta accreta (12 women, placenta previa/accreta group). Maternal plasma concentrations of cell-free beta-HCG mRNA were measured by real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and were expressed as multiples of the median (MoM).;RESULTS: Cell-free beta-HCG mRNA concentrations (MoM, range) were significantly higher in women with placenta accreta (3.65, 2.78-7.19) than in women with placenta previa (0.94, 0.00-2.97) or normal placentation (1.00, 0.00-2.69) (Steel-Dwass test, P < 0.01 and P < 0.01, respectively). In the placenta previa/accreta group, the concentration of cell-free beta-HCG mRNA was significantly higher among women who underwent CDs with hysterectomy (4.41, 3.49-7.19) than among women whose CDs did not result in hysterectomy (3.20, 2.78-3.70) (Mann-Whitney U test, P = 0.012).;DISCUSSION: An increased level of cell-free beta-HCG mRNA in the maternal plasma of women with placenta accreta may arise from direct uteroplacental transfer of cell-free placental mRNA molecules.;CONCLUSIONS: The concentration of cell-free beta-HCG mRNA in maternal plasma may be applicable to the prenatal diagnosis of placenta accreta, especially to identify women with placenta accreta likely to require hysterectomy. Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	2014	Zhou, J;Li, J;Yan, P;Ye, YH;Peng, W;Wang, S;Wang, XT	Placenta	10.1016/j.placenta.2014.07.007
Abdominal Wall Endometriosis: 12 Years Of Experience At A Large Academic Institution	OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to review patient characteristics and intraoperative findings for excised cases of abdominal wall endometriosis (AWE).;STUDY DESIGN: A 12 year medical record search was performed for cases of excised AWE, and the diagnosis was confirmed on pathological specimen. Descriptive data were collected and analyzed.;RESULTS: Of 65 patients included, the primary clinical presentation was abdominal pain and/or a mass/lump (73.8% and 63.1%, respectively). Most patients had a history of cesarean section (81.5%) but 6 patients (9.2%) had no prior surgery. Time from the initial surgery to presentation ranged from 1 to 32 years (median, 7.0 years), and time from the most recent relevant surgery ranged from 1 to 32 years (median, 4.0 years). Five patients (7.7%) required mesh for fascial closure following the resection of the AWE. We were unable to demonstrate a correlation between the increasing numbers of open abdominal surgeries and the time to presentation or depth of involvement. Age, body mass index, and parity also were not predictive of depth of involvement. There were increased rates of umbilical lesions (75% vs 5.6%, P < .001) in nulliparous compared with multiparous women as well as in women without a history of cesarean section (66.7% vs 1.9%, P < .001).;CONCLUSION: In women with a mass or pain at a prior incision, the differential diagnosis should include AWE. Although we were unable to demonstrate specific characteristics predictive for AWE, a large portion of our population had a prior cesarean section, suggesting a correlation. Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2014	Ecker, AM;Donnellan, NM;Shepherd, JP;Lee, TT	American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology	10.1016/j.ajog.2014.04.011
Biometric Sonographic Findings Of Abnormally Adherent Trophoblastic Implantations On Cesarean Delivery Scars	OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to review first-trimester transvaginal sonograms of patients with cervicoisthmic implantations and prior cesarean deliveries to determine whether sonographic biometric measurements can distinguish between abnormally adherent trophoblastic implantations and normally implanted pregnancies.;METHODS: Our database was reviewed from October 2006 through December 2011 for patients with first-trimester sonographic diagnoses of cervicoisthmic implantations and previous cesarean deliveries. Biometric measurements of the smallest distance from the anterior trophoblastic border to the uterine serosa were performed on transvaginal sagittal images of the uterus. Outcomes were classified into 5 categories: cesarean scar pregnancy, placental invasion (accreta/increta/percreta), previa without invasion, spontaneous abortion, and delivered intrauterine pregnancy. Statistical methods included analysis of variance with the Tukey range test and Student t test.;RESULTS: Of 77 studies, outcome data were available for 56 patients. The mean gestational age was 8.8 weeks (minimum, 2.0 weeks; maximum, 14.9 weeks). The anterior trophoblastic border distances from the uterine serosa were significantly smaller in cesarean scar pregnancies (mean, 1.6 mm; SD, 0.6 mm) and placental invasion pregnancies (mean, 2.2 mm; SD, 1.0 mm) than the normally implanted groups (mean, 7.9 mm, SD, 3.3 mm; P < .0001).;CONCLUSIONS: Smaller trophoblastic border distances to the anterior uterine serosa are seen in abnormally adherent trophoblastic implantations, and these distances distinguish them from other pregnancy outcomes.	2014	Moschos, E;Wells, CE;Twickler, DM	Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine	10.7863/ultra.33.3.475
Effect Of Antenatal Breast Milk Expression At Term Pregnancy To Improve Post Natal Lactational Performance	OBJECTIVES: To study the effect of antenatal breast milk expression at term pregnancy and subsequent effect on postnatal lactation performance.;METHODS: A sample size of 200 pregnant women who had completed 37 weeks of gestational period was selected. The sample size was divided equally into study (group 1) and control (group 2). The pregnant women in study (group 1) were advised to gently manually express their breasts at least once daily at any time, preferably during bathing. The remaining women constituted the group 2. At the time of delivery, all the mothers were advised to initiate breastfeeding their baby within half an hour of delivery. The time from initiation of lactation to full lactation when no top feed is required was noted. Assessment of sufficient lactation was judged by the objective and subjective criteria.;RESULT: In the group 1, 89 % of the cases established full lactation within 6 h of delivery, whereas in the group 2 only 72 % of the cases had established full lactation within 6 h. The difference in the group 1 and the group 2 is statistically significant (P < 0.05) with regard to time interval from initiation of lactation to full lactation. Maternal perception of satisfactory lactation was statistically significantly higher in group 1 compared with group 2. In the group 1, 100 % of vaginal delivery (FTND) cases had established full lactation within 6 h compared with 81 % in the group 2. The result is statistically significant (P < 0.10). In the group 1, 80 % of the lower segment cesarean section deliveries established full lactation within 6 h, whereas in the group 2, it was 61 %. The result is statistically significant (P < 0.10). In objective criteria, the post-feed weight gain was higher in the group 1.;CONCLUSIONS: Antenatal manual breast milk expression at term shortens the time taken to from initiation to full establishment of lactation, thus significantly improving postnatal lactational performance by early establishment of plentiful milk secretion.	2016	Lamba, S;Chopra, S;Negi, M	Journal of Obstetrics & Gynaecology of India	10.1007/s13224-014-0648-7
Estimation Of The Prevalence Of Msaf And Comparison Of Its Risk Factors Among Newborn Delivered In A Tertiary Level Of Health Care Center	Introduction: Meconium being the first intestinal secretion from the foetus starts as early as 10 weeks of gestation and tends to increase in its incidence with increasing period of gestation. Meconium stained amniotic fluid is a commonly observed phenomenon in routine Obstetric and Pediatric practice, which is considered as one of the signs of fetal distress in cases other than breech presentation. Factors such as placental insufficiency, maternal hypertension, pre-eclampsia, oligohydroamnios, etc. result in-utero passage of meconium. Objective(s): To estimate the burden of MSAF and assessment of the associated risk factors among newborn delivered in a tertiary level of health care center. Methodology: Prospective observational study was conducted with 1086 neonates born with MSAF in a tertiary level of health care center (M.P.) over a period of 1 year after clearance from institutional ethical committee. A written informed consent was obtained from the parents of the subjects. All newborn with MSAF and whose parents provide consent to participate in the study was included under study. Result(s): The incidence of MSAF in this study is calculated as 12%. About 79% newborns need no active intervention at birth and shifted to mother side and 21% newborn need active intervention at births and admitted in NICU. Male contributes about 59% and female about 41% of total MSAF newborns (Sex ratio for MSAF newborns calculated 702/1000). Most of the MSAF newborn delivered by LSCS. Maternal risk factors like Anemia, pregnancy induced hypertension and preeclampsia/eclampsia had shown significant association. Conclusion(s): This study found that among total numbers of delivery, about 12% newborn had suffered from MSAF. Risk factors like delivery mode, maternal age, gestational age, birth weight and others maternal risk factors like anemia, PIH and preeclampsia had a significant association between the two group of newborns with MSAF.Copyright © 2023, Dr. Yashwant Research Labs Pvt. Ltd.. All rights reserved.	2023	Singh, S.;Patidar, A.K.;Jain, A.;Sharma, V.;Gupta, P.;Gupta, M.	International Journal of Toxicological and Pharmacological Research	
Childbirth Satisfaction In Women With Psychological Traumatic Childbirth	Objectives: This study was conducted to determine factors related to childbirth satisfaction in women who experienced psychological traumatic childbirth. Material(s) and Method(s): This cross-sectional study was conducted to examine 375 postpartum women who had experienced psychological traumatic childbirth according to criterion A of the fifth edition of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5 [A]). Data-gathering tools were the demographic and obstetric characteristics questionnaire and Mackey childbirth satisfaction questionnaire. The data were analyzed using SPSS (version 24.0), and independent t test, ANOVA, Pearson correlation coefficient, as well as multivariate linear regression test were used to perform data analysis. Result(s): The mean (standard deviation) of the delivery satisfaction score was 120.09 (27.11) out of 170. The predictors of satisfaction with delivery in women who had experienced psychological traumatic childbirth included type of delivery (P < 0.001), accordance of the delivery with the desired delivery (P = 0.013), and analgesia (P = 0.02). Conclusion(s): It seems that with continuous training and counseling about the type of delivery, the mother's participation in delivery decisions, and also providing a variety of analgesia methods during delivery can increase childbirth satisfaction and reduce psychological traumatic childbirth.Copyright © 2021 The Author(s);.	2023	Mokhtari, F.;Mousavi, S.;Nourizadeh, R.;Hakimi, S.;Mehrabi, E.;Shamsalizadeh, N.	International Journal of Women's Health and Reproduction Sciences	10.15296/ijwhr.2023.03
Perinatal Factors And High-Sensitive C-Reactive Protein Levels During Adolescence	Objective: To examine whether perinatal factors are associated with low-grade inflammation measured by high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels during adolescence. Method(s): Nested case-control study of 125 teenagers who were born by Cesarean delivery and had high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels determined at 15-17 years. Data on obstetric and perinatal factors were recorded prospectively at the time of their birth. Result(s): Median values of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein were significantly higher in teenagers, who were born as large for gestational age or with maternal diabetes compared to others (2.54 vs 0.34 mg/L; p < 0.024), and born during spring or summer compared to those born during winter or autumn (0.48 vs 0.27 mg/L; p < 0.023). No other perinatal associations were detected (for ex. such as electivity of operation, onset of labor, rupture of fetal membranes, cervical dilatation at delivery, gestational age, Apgar scores at 5 min, umbilical blood pH value, administration of neonatal antibiotics or need of neonatal intensive care treatment) in CRP levels. Further, teenagers with current body mass index in the highest tertile, regular medication for chronic disease and girls using oral contraceptives had significantly higher high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels than others. Conclusion(s): Prenatal exposures such as maternal metabolic environment and seasonality may have longterm effects on the low-grade inflammation and later cardiometabolic risks. Seasonality might be partly explained by maternal vitamin D levels during pregnancy, and thus future efforts are warranted to ensure sufficient vitamin D availability during pregnancy. Surprisingly, no other significant associations were detected between perinatal characteristics and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels.Copyright © The Author(s) 2022.	2022	Marila, A.;Karvonen, A.M.;Pekkanen, J.;Keski-Nisula, L.	European Journal of Inflammation	10.1177/1721727X221116744
Factors Associated With Breastfeeding Initiation And Duration In Greece: Data From The Hellenic National Nutrition And Health Survey	Despite its well-documented benefits, breastfeeding rates and duration worldwide do not meet the recommended goals set by the World Health Organization. Data on infant feeding, socio-demographic, lifestyle and perinatal factors were used from 490 mothers (and 958 children), participants at the Hellenic National Nutrition and Health Survey between 2013-2015. Clustered multiple logistic regression and multilevel mixed-model regression analyses were performed to identify factors associated with breastfeeding initiation and duration, respectively. Maternal lower education [Odds Ratio (OR): 2.29, 95% Confidence intervals (95% CI): 1.30-4.04; p = 0.004], smoking during pregnancy (OR: 3.08, 95% CI: 1.64-5.77; p < 0.001), caesarean section (OR = 3.26, 95% CI: 1.83-5.83; p < 0.001), prematurity (OR = 2.74, 95% CI: 1.40-5.37; p = 0.003) and higher birth order (OR = 1.30, 95% CI: 1.04-1.62; p = 0.020) were associated with increased odds of not initiating breastfeeding. Living in rural areas [beta coefficient b = -27.93, p = 0.043], smoking during pregnancy (b = -64.47, p < 0.001), caesarean section (b = -28.76, p = 0.046) and prematurity (b = -46.67, p = 0.048) were significantly associated with shorter breastfeeding duration. Children born chronologically closer to the survey were more likely to breastfeed and for longer periods. Educational promotion and enhancement of breastfeeding awareness that account for maternal exposures are required. Prevention of prematurity and avoidance of unnecessary caesarean section is crucial, while additional breastfeeding support is needed when preterm birth occurs, or caesarean section cannot be avoided.Copyright © 2022 by the authors.	2022	Spyrakou, E.;Magriplis, E.;Benetou, V.;Zampelas, A.	Children	10.3390/children9111773
Patient Satisfaction With Pain Management Is Equal Or Higher When Prescribed Nonopioids Versus Opioids After Obstetric And Gynecologic Surgery	Objective: We sought to characterize patient satisfaction with pain management among patients who received opioids for pain control versus those who received nonopioids following 3 common obstetric and gynecologic procedures: (1) laparoscopic removal of adnexal structures; (2) hysterectomy; (3) and cesarean section (C-section). Material(s) and Method(s): This prospective cohort study included a telephone questionnaire and chart reviews. It was conducted to assess opioid use following common obstetric and gynecologic surgical procedures. All study activities were performed at the University of Vermont Medical Center, Burlington, VT, USA, between July 2016 and February 2017. Patients (N = 192) who underwent common obstetric and gynecologic surgeries close to the study dates were enrolled. Information gathered included quantity of opioids prescribed and utilized, patient satisfaction with pain control, and degree of pain control. Bivariate analyses were used to compare patients who did and did not use opioids. Result(s): Among the 192 patients, 36 had laparoscopic removal of adnexal structures, 69 had hysterectomies, and 87 had C-sections. Patients who had opioids postoperatively reported equal or higher satisfaction with pain control, compared to participants who had opioids. Conclusion(s): Levels of satisfaction with pain control are equal, if not higher, when comparing patients who receive nonopioid medications to patients who are prescribed opioids. This study offers a patient perspective in support of limiting the use of opioids to manage postoperative pain following obstetric and gynecologic surgery. (J GYNECOL SURG 20XX:000)Copyright 2024, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc., publishers.	2024	Balasubramanian, A.;Horn, C.E.;An, C.;Fujii, M.H.;Callas, P.;MacAfee, L.	Journal of Gynecologic Surgery	10.1089/gyn.2024.0003
Mir 31-3P Has The Highest Expression In Cesarean Scar Endometriosis	Micro-RNAs expression can vary between different forms of endometriosis, but data on miRNA expression in cesarean scar endometriosis is lacking. The present study is comprised of 30 patients with endometriosis in the cesarean scar (scar endometriosis, SE), 14 patients with deep infiltrating endometriosis (DIE), 47 patients with endometrioma (ovarian endometrial cyst, OE), and 33 patients with healthy ovarian tissue as the control group (CG). In the initial experiment to identify possible dysregulated miRNAs, the levels of 754 miRNAs in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue (FFPE) samples from OE, high-grade ovarian cancer, endometrioid ovarian cancer, and CG were measured. We identified seven potentially dysregulated miRNAs: miR-1-3p, miR-31-3p, miR-125b-1-3p, miR-200b-3p, miR-548d, miR-502, and miR-503. We then examined the expression profiles of each of these miRNAs individually in the SE, DIE, OE, and CG FFPE samples using RT-qPCR. miR-31-3p had significantly higher levels of expression and miR-125b-1-3p had significantly lower levels of expression in SE compared to the controls. Overall, the higher expression levels of miR-31-3p and the lower expression levels of miR-125b-1-3p are consistent with the benign nature of SE. Importantly, the results of the present study demonstrate the possibility of using miRNA to monitor the risk of malignant transformation of endometriosis tissue.Copyright © 2022 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.	2022	Szubert, M.;Nowak-Gluck, A.;Domanska-Senderowska, D.;Szymanska, B.;Sowa, P.;Rycerz, A.;Wilczynski, J.R.	International Journal of Molecular Sciences	10.3390/ijms23094660
Clinicopathological Study Of Tubal Ectopic Gestation In A Tertiary Care Centre	Background: Implantation of fertilized ovum at an aberrant site outside the uterus is termed as ectopic gestation. More than 95% of ectopic gestation occurs in fallopian tube and has a multifactorial pathogenesis with numerous contributing risk factors. This study was undertaken to assess the clinical presentation and predisposing risk factors of tubal ectopic gestation. Method(s): This was a retrospective study conducted in a tertiary care centre, for a period of three years, from October 2017 to September 2020, in the department of pathology. All cases of tubal ectopic gestation confirmed by histopathology were included in the study. Demographic data, clinical presentation and data regarding the predisposing risk factors of tubal ectopic gestation were collected from the medical records. Result(s): The study includes a total of 88 cases that are confirmed by histopathological analysis. Majority of the cases were in the age group of 26 to 30 years. Pain abdomen was the most common clinical presentation followed by bleeding per vagina. The highest incidence of tubal ectopic gestation is among nulliparous women followed by women with para 1 and para 2 status. Pelvic inflammatory disease, previous history of caesarean section followed by previous history of other pelvic surgeries, abortion, bilateral tubal ligation (recanalized), and infertility treatment are the most common risk factors. Conclusion(s): Identification of risk factors helps the clinician to conduct a precise workup which aids in early diagnosis of tubal ectopic gestation. Thus, a timely intervention can reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with tubal ectopic gestation.Copyright © 2022, Dr. Yashwant Research Labs Pvt. Ltd.. All rights reserved.	2022	Athira, K.P.;Umashankar, T.;Kumar, M.	International Journal of Toxicological and Pharmacological Research	
Case Controlled Study For Determination Of Risk Factors In Abdominal Wall Endometriosis Following A Cesarean Section	Introduction: Abdominal wall endometriosis (AWE) is the presence of ectopic endometrial tissue in abdominal wall and is most frequently encountered in women with previous cesarean section (CS). The aim of this study is to evaluate the possible risk factors of AWE development. Method(s): Women with previous CS and pathologically confirmed AWE were included into the study (n = 33). Controls (n = 127) were randomly selected among women who had previous CS and absence of AWE were confirmed by physical examination. Clinical characteristics of the patient and the CS operation preceding AWE were recorded. Result(s): CS was performed before onset of labor in 87.9% in AWE and in 59.1% of control group (p = 0.002). The antenatal BMI and weight gain during pregnancy were significantly higher in AWE patients (p < 0.0001; p = 0.002, respectively). In logistic regression model procedure duration (p = 0.039; OR = 1083), antenatal BMI (p = 0.003; OR = 1254), weight gain (p = 0.002; OR = 1171), and CS before spontaneous labor (p = 0.021; OR = 5169) were significant parameters for predicting AWE. Discussion(s): High antenatal BMI, weight gain during pregnancy, and longer duration of operation are all factors effecting subsequent AWE development. However, CS before spontaneous labor is by far the most powerful risk factor for AWE development.Copyright © The Author(s) 2022.	2022	Erdogan, P.;Erdogan, A.;Bolat, H.;Ozbey, C.	Journal of Endometriosis and Pelvic Pain Disorders	10.1177/22840265221093818
A Clinical Study On Intrauterine Fetal Deaths At A Tertiary Care Hospital	Intrauterine fetal death (IUFD) and still birth is tragic event for the mother, family as well as health care givers and has always challenged the obstetricians. Still birth or late fetal death is one in which a fetus is born dead after completion of 28 weeks of gestation. But for international comparison WHO has suggested that the weight of the fetus at 28 weeks of gestation is taken as 1000gms. In this prospective study, 100 confirmed cases of intra uterine fetal demise (IUFD) were studied with priorconsent. The parameters for the analysis include maternal age, parity,booked case or unbooked case and probable cause for IUFD,mode of delivery, maternal complications, placental and fetal gross study done. Further study of placenta/ fetal autopsy in 100 cases were evaluated systematically after informed consent. 74 of the mothers were normal by BMI, 18 were overweight, 4 each were obese and underweight. 23 mothers had normal haemoglobinlevels, others were anemic (37-mild, 30-moderate, 10-severe). 60 mothers had normal blood pressure where as rest 40 mothers had high BP (7-mild pre-eclampsia, 27 severe preeclampsia, 4 eclampsia and 2 HELLP syndrome). 70, 81 and 99 mothers had normal levels of THS, HbA1C and APLA respectively. 30 mothers were having hypothyroid state, 19 were diabetic and one mother had increased APLA levels.Copyright © 2022 EManuscript Technologies. All rights reserved.	2022	Veena, J.;Ashrani, K.N.M.;Usharani, N.	Journal of Cardiovascular Disease Research	10.31838/jcdr.2022.13.01.113
The Anterior Pelvic Index (Api) In The Classification Of The Female Pelvis And Prediction Of Fetopelvic Disproportion	Measurements of the upper strait of the pelvis can be calculated using the Anterior Pelvic Index. The objective of the study was to determine the external validity and cut-off point of the API, to classify narrow pelvises from normal ones. We selected 214 women from 15 to 55 years old, 171 had vaginal delivery and 43 by caesarean section by feto-pelvic disproportion (FPD) of maternal origin, in whom the API was calculated, of which its mean difference was established with an alpha error of <0.05. Maximum values of sensitivity and specificity, ROC curve and Youden index were determined. The student's t gave a p-value =0.000 of the mean difference between the women who had vaginal delivery and those who had cesarean section by FPD of maternal origin; the value of the area under the ROC curve was 0.758 (CI 95% 0.695 - 0.814) with a p-value=0.0001. Maximum sensitivity was 74.42 % (CI 95%: 58.8 % to 86.5 %) and maximum specificity was 73.10 % (CI 95%: 65.8 % to 79.6 %), produced a Youden index of 0.475 (CI 95% 0.283 - 0.590) which is associated with the 15.44 (CI 95% 14.19 - 15.83) of the API scale. The API is a good tool for predicting women with suspected narrow pelvis and allows its classification into three types of pelvises: an API value of more than 15.83 would indicate pelvis suitable for vaginal delivery; an API value between 14.19 and 15.83 would be suspected of pelvic narrowness; an API value less than 14.19 would confirm a narrow pelvis.Copyright © 2023, Universidad de la Frontera. All rights reserved.	2023	Guerrero-Figueroa, M.;Ocampo, J.;Zapata, M.;Rosales, N.;Guevara, J.;Calero, A.;Iniguez, P.;Cobena, B.;Basantes, A.	International Journal of Morphology	10.4067/S0717-95022023000501461
Obstetric Anal Sphincter Injuries A Retrospective Observational Analysis Of The Duration Of Parturition	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of the duration of the parturition process in the occurrence of obstetric anal sphincter injuries, in comparison with other known associated factors. STUDY DESIGN: Observational analysis of consecutive vaginal deliveries, recognizing the incidence of obstetrical anal sphincter injury, and comparing it with the measurement of the duration of parturition from the time of observed crowning until the time of delivery. RESULT(S): The expected as-sociation of anal sphincter injury with episiotomy, as well as with operative vaginal delivery, was observed. In addition, an inverse association of the duration of parturition and incidence of sphincter injury was found. CONCLUSION(S): The pace of delivery, especially with operative vaginal delivery, may be an important aspect to consider for the conduct of vaginal delivery, paying particular attention to the stretching of the pelvic floor, which typically occurs with crowning at that time. This may help to avoid anal sphincter injury. (J Reprod Med 2021;66:75-78).Copyright © Journal of Reproductive Medicine, Inc.	2021	Levine, E.M.;Delfinado, L.N.;Durand, M.;Rojas, D.;Locher, S.	Journal of Reproductive Medicine	
Femoral Nerve Injury In Gynecologic Surgery: Medico-Legal Issues For Best Surgical Practices	Background: Femoral nerve injury following gynecologic surgery may be a postoperative complication, leading to medical malpractice claims and litigation. Methods and Results: A retrospective analysis was performed on data collected from 973 medico-legal reports of suspected malpractice in gynecologic surgery, filed with the Italian Court between 2000 and 2010. Twelve cases were selected for proven negligence, after a blinded investigation conducted by a gynecologist and a medico-legal expert. Surgical data included type of procedure (hysterectomy, salpingectomy, cesarean section, endometriosis excision), duration of procedure, patient position, and use of retractors. For each case, the observed neuropathy, degree of severity, and recovery time after physical therapy were described. Neuropathies were classified into three categories: neuropraxia (three cases), axonotmesis (six cases), and neurotmesis (three cases) with high sensory and motor deficits. Many particular conditions and pre-existing comorbidity were observed. Two neuropraxia cases were associated with the lithotomy position; axonotmesis cases were related to the incorrect use of self-retaining retractors and an inadequate lithotomy position. Conclusion(s): To avoid potential malpractice lawsuits, care must be taken to accurately collect data linked to individual factors and the possible complications of a surgical procedure. A detailed description is required of the patient's position on the surgical table, the self-retaining retractors selected, length of time they were in use, maximum tractive force exerted, and their inspection or repositioning during the operation.Copyright © The Author(s). 2021.	2021	Fedeli, P.;Guida, M.;Giugliano, P.;Mazzarelli, L.L.;D'apuzzo, A.;Scendoni, R.;Vacchiano, G.	Gynecological Surgery	10.1186/s10397-021-01086-7
Covert Postpartum Urinary Retention, Is There A Place For Routine Bladder Ultrasound In Postpartum Care?	Postpartum urinary retention (PUR) is defined as inability to void after six hours from delivery or having abnormal post-void residual volume after delivery (PVRV). Overt PUR is easily detectable condition but covert PUR usually remains undiagnosed. We aim to investigate the incidence of covert PUR and identify the risk factors. A retrospective analysis of the postpartum women was undertaken between January-July 2016. PVRV of the patients either delivered vaginally or cesarean section were assessed with ultrasound after first micturition. All the ultrasound scans were made by experienced gynecologist. PVRV of more than 150 mL was defined as covert PUR. Maternal age, parity, BMI, type of delivery, episiotomy, first urination time, fetal head circumference, labor augmentation and fetal birth weight were investigated as possible risk factors for covert PUR. The characteristics of the patients with or without covert PUR were compared. Of the 450 women included, 67 (17.49%) were diagnosed as covert PUR. Birth weight (p= 0.001), head circumference (p=0.043), vaginal delivery (p=0.001) and need for episiotomy (p=0.003) were statistically different between patients with PVRV under 150 mL and above 150 mL. Fetal head circumference appeared as the only independent risk factor for covert PUR (95% CI for OR=1.11-1.127, p=0.04). Although covert PUR is a common problem after delivery, risk factors and treatment have not been established. Until risk factors are identified clearly with larger studies, postpartum routine PVRV evaluation may be beneficial for preventing long-term voiding dysfunction problems.Copyright © 2021 Ondokuz Mayis Universitesi. All rights reserved.	2021	Koyuncu, K.;Turgay, B.;Varli, B.;Ulusoy, C.O.;Aytac, R.;Soylemez, F.	Journal of Experimental and Clinical Medicine (Turkey)	10.52142/omujecm.38.2.15
Does The Method Of Delivery Influence The Recurrence Of Rhegmatogenous Retinal Detachment?	Purpose: The aim of this study was to evaluate whether the method of delivery has an effect on the incidence rate of recurrent rhegmatogenous retinal detachment in women who have been previously treated surgically for rhegmatogenous retinal detachment. Method(s): In this retrospective cohort study, data were collected from computerized files on Rabin Medical Center and Clallit Health Services databases, to create the study group: Women who were surgically treated due to rhegmatogenous retinal detachment and who had given birth after their ocular surgery. A primary list of women aged 18-43 who underwent Pars Plana Vitrectomy or Scleral Buckling between the years 2005-2018 was obtained from the Rabin Medical Center Surgical database. The study protocol was approved by the institutional Helsinki Committee at Rabin Medical Center (0417-18-RMC). The main outcome compared was the incidence rate of recurrent rhegmatogenous retinal detachment following childbirth for every type of delivery; vaginal, assisted delivery, and cesarean section. Result(s): Fourteen women had given birth after their ocular surgery, and all underwent Scleral Buckling. Ten of the women had a normal vaginal delivery, 3 women underwent a cesarean section and one woman had a vacuum-assisted vaginal delivery. No case of recurrent retinal detachment was documented. Conclusion(s): We conclude from this study that the method of delivery does not have an influence on the recurrence of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment, thus vaginal delivery is not contraindicated in women with previously treated rhegmatogenous retinal detachment.Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Bentham Science Publisher.	2023	Adler, G.;Key, D.;Schaap-Fogler, M.;Ehrlich, R.;Hadayer, A.;Axer-Siegel, R.;Dotan, A.	Open Ophthalmology Journal	10.2174/18743641-v17-230906-2023-11
A Study Of Prevalence And Risk Factors Of Anemia In Postnatal Women	Background: Approximately two-thirds of pregnant women in developing nations are believed to experience nutritional anemia. Importantly, a significant proportion of these women were already anemic when they became pregnant, with an estimated anemia prevalence of nearly 50% among non-pregnant women in these regions. The present study aimed to determine the prevalence of anemia among postnatal women and study the risk factors associated with anemia in postnatal women. Method(s): Sociodemographic data, third-trimester hemoglobin levels, and risk factors for postnatal anemia (parity, antenatal anemia, antenatal medical complications, intrapartum events, postpartum hemorrhage, mode of delivery, iron and vitamin supplementation, diet, infections, and breastfeeding) will be collected through a structured questionnaire, antenatal records, and delivery discharge summary. A 2 mL venous blood sample will be collected using established protocols. Hemoglobin levels will be estimated using a Sysmex 2-part Fully Automatic Hematology Analyzer. Result(s): The prevalence of postpartum anemia in this study was 52%. Women residing in urban areas had a lower likelihood of developing postpartum anemia compared to those living in rural areas. Mothers with no formal education were several times more likely to experience postpartum anemia compared to those with a formal education. Patients who underwent cesarean-section deliveries were times more likely to develop postpartum anemia than those who had vaginal deliveries. Conclusion(s): Overall, findings suggest that the risk of anemia in postpartum women is higher in older women, who live in rural areas, have lower educational status, have lower socioeconomic status, have more pregnancies, have low birth weight newborns, and have cesarean deliveries. Interventions to reduce the risk of anemia in postpartum women should focus on targeting these groups of women.Copyright © 2023, Dr Yashwant Research Labs Pvt Ltd. All rights reserved.	2023	Saritha, G.;Sreenivas, G.B.;Reddy, M.S.	International Journal of Pharmaceutical and Clinical Research	
Evaluation Of The Compatibility Of Ultrasound And Hysteroscopic Findings And Histopathological Results In Women With Abnormal Uterine Bleeding (Aub)	Background and aim: This study aimed to determine the compatibility of ultrasound and hysteroscopy findings and histopathological results in women with abnormal uterine bleeding. Due to the high prevalence of cesarean section in our country and since less attention has been paid to cesarean section defects (isthmocele) as a cause of abnormal uterine bleeding, even in cases where hysteroscopy findings and ultrasound are not fully matched, in the present study, the presence of isthmocele during hysteroscopy and its compliance with the ultrasound reports is examined. Material(s) and Method(s): In this cross-sectional study, 913 women with abnormal uterine bleeding who met the inclusion criteria, were studied. After obtaining written consent from the patients, hysteroscopy was performed under local or general anesthesia, and ultrasonography was also performed. If polyps or myoma were observed, the resection was performed using scissors or a resect scope. The site of cesarean section defects was also examined by hysteroscopy. In the absence of focal lesions, endometrial curettage was performed, and all samples were sent for pathological examination. Data were entered into SPSS software, version 23, and analyzed. Result(s): The study included 913 patients with abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB) with an average age of 41.13+/- 9.22. The mean duration of AUB in patients was 10.97+/-14.61 months. The most common form of bleeding was intermenstrual spotting, which was seen in 27.7% of patients, followed by menorrhagia in 26.4% and menometrorrhagia in 21.1%. In ultrasonography findings, the most common findings were polyp and then myoma in 38.1% and 20.0% of patients, respectively. In hysteroscopy, the most common findings were polyp, myoma, and normal evaluation, respectively. A positive and significant correlation was found between the presence of isthmocele in ultrasonography and the number of cesarean sections (CC=0.189, p-value=0.0001) and the duration of bleeding (CC =0.086, p-value=0.009), and there was also a positive and significant correlation between isthmocele finding in hysteroscopy with the number of cesarean sections (CC=0.566, p-value=0.0001) and parity (CC=0.200, p-value=0.0001). An inverse and significant correlation was also observed between the age of patients and abnormal pathological findings in ultrasonography and hysteroscopy. Based on the kappa coefficient (19.2%), hysteroscopy was a more appropriate method in diagnosing patients with AUB. Conclusion(s): The ultrasound and hysteroscopy diagnostic methods demonstrated appropriate sensitivity in investigating cases of abnormal uterine bleeding. However, the hysteroscopy was actually useful in diagnostic experiments of AUB.Copyright © 2021 Lahore Medical And Dental College. All rights reserved.	2021	ASGARI, Z.;HOSSEINI, R.;AZADEHRAH, M.	Pakistan Journal of Medical and Health Sciences	
A Prospective Comparative Study Between Perinatal Outcomes In Elective And Emergency	Background & Method: The aim of this study is to study a prospective comparative study between perinatal outcomes in elective and emergency. Pregnant women attending Obstetrics and gynecology department in Kamla Raja Hospital Gwalior, who fulfill the inclusion criteria and exclusion criteria were considered for study. A detailed history was taken which included patient's education occupation, menstrual history, obstetric history, previous obstetric events were asses in detail, past history and surgical history and personal history taken. A thorough general physical and obstetric examination was done. The patients were divided into those undergoing elective caesarean section and those undergoing emergency caesarean section. Result(s): Transient Tachypnea of Newborn was seen in 7 babies born during emergency LSCS and 2 babies born during elective LSCS. It was not statistically significant with p <0.170. Hypoxic-Ischemic Encephalopathy was seen in 16 babies born during emergency LSCS. It was statistically significant with p<0.001 Conclusion(s): The rate of caesarean section is very high in a tertiary care center. The outcome of emergency and elective caesarean delivery mainly depends on the maternal and/or fetal conditions. A Emergency caesarean delivery has been associated with significantly higher fetal complications than elective caesarean sections. The reason for these complications are many. Beside obstetrical causes, factors like lack of antenatal care, anemia, malnutrition, and illiteracy also play a major role. Early and timely decision for caesarean delivery and proper care in post-operative period decreased the fetal complications.Copyright © 2023 EManuscript Technologies. All rights reserved.	2023	Dabi, T.;Sharma, P.;Tripathi, U.	Journal of Cardiovascular Disease Research	10.31838/jcdr.2023.14.04.52
Knowledge Levels And Behavior Of Women Related To Breast Milk And Breastfeeding	Aim: Breast milk should be given alone for the first six months and after six months with supplementary food for at least two years. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the level of knowledge and behavior of women related to breast milk and breastfeeding of 0-24 months old babies. Material(s) and Method(s): This cross-sectional analytical study was conducted on 401 women. Sociodemographic characteristics of mothers were questioned, a questionnaire including questions about breast milk and breast-feeding knowledge levels and behaviors was applied. Result(s): Infants born normally were introduced earlier to breast milk after delivery compared to infants born by cesarean section (p<0.001). Premature infants have started to take breast milk later than the infants born mature (p<0.001), and the rates of taking only breast milk in the first six months were low (p<0.001). The breastfeeding rate of working mothers was lower than housewives (p=0.036). While the normal spontaneous delivery rate was high in non-working moth-ers, the rate of cesarean section was higher in working mothers (p=0.021). The frequency of exclusive breastfeeding in the first six months, when babies aged between 6-24 months (n=339) were evaluated, 71.1% (n=241) took only breast milk during the first six months. Fathers with higher levels of education were more positive and supportive of breastfeeding than the fathers with lower education levels (p=0.028). Discussion(s): In conclusion, starting breastfeeding educations from pregnancy, reducing the incidence of cesarean sections without indications, encouraging normal spontaneous delivery, and motivating and raising awareness of mothers with premature infants will positively affect breastfeeding.Copyright © 2021, Derman Medical Publishing. All rights reserved.	2021	Yaka, H.;Kutlu, R.;Cihan, F.G.	Annals of Clinical and Analytical Medicine	10.4328/ACAM.20291
Morphological Description Of Uterine Scar 1 Year After Cesarean Section By 3D-Space 3.0T Mr	It is of great improvement if prior cesarean section imaging could predict following pathological gestation and assist clinical decision. MR 3D-SPACE sequence can provide high spatial resolution, yet MR has not been used for detailed morphological evaluation of uterine scar. Our study evaluated scar gross anatomical features and detail characteristic, including shape, volume, location, endometrium within scar using 3D SPACE MR. 35 volunteers' images were reviewed by two radiologists. Scar volume, curve distance from cervical os, the ratio of scar thickness-posterior wall thickness and scar shape classification were obtained, gross and detailed scar MR imaging features could help hysteroscopic operative plan.Copyright © 2020, Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.	2020	Ding, N.;Qi, Y.;He, Y.;Ma, L.;Xue, H.;Jin, Z.	Chinese Journal of Academic Radiology	10.1007/s42058-020-00044-0
Peripartum Hysterectomies - Leading Risk Factors And Causes	Purpose: To define the frequency, significant factors and causes that necessitated peripartum hys-terectomies. Material(s) and Method(s): We studied retro-spectively and prospectively 21 patients who un-derwent peripartum hysterectomies at Nadezhda Women's Health Hospital between January 2013 and July 2019. Result(s): The frequency of peripartum hysterectomy was 1.96/1000 deliveries, and 95 % of them were performed during or after a cesarean birth. The intrapartum ones were carried out mainly be-cause of uterine atony or abnormal insertion of the placenta. The interventions made in the early postoperative period were undertaken in cases of severe pelvic inflammations and postoperative hematomas. Conclusion(s): Patients undergoing cesarean section are at risk for peripartum haemorrhages, which are associated with many risk factors: previous cesarean section and other interventions such as myomectomy, placenta praevia.Copyright © 2020, Peytchinski, Gospodin Iliev ET. All rights reserved.	2020	Totev, T.;Staneva, D.;Oslekov, T.;Stamenov, G.	Journal of IMAB - Annual Proceeding (Scientific Papers)	10.5272/jimab.2020264.3387
Skeletal Deformities Of Children With Cerebral Palsy (Clinicoepidemilogical Study)	Retrospective study of (100) children with cerebral palsy of mean age 7.23 (+/-3.6) years, were examined in Al-Hussein Teaching Hospital in Samawa city at period from 1/6/2019 to 1/6/2020. Males (62) cases while females (38) cases. (46) cases were hemiplegia, (18) cases diplegia, (12) cases were quadriplegia, (3) cases were monoplegia, (20) cases were hypotonia, (1) case was ataxia. All patients examined for area of living, (71) cases of rural area and (29) cases of urban area. The type of delivery was assessed whether normal vaginal delivery (71) cases, caseran section (23) cases and (6) cases of forceps delivery. Neurological and physical examination of the joints were done. Radiological assessment including plain X-Ray, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computerized scan were applied. Nerve conduction study and electromyography were applied for many patients. Risk factors which are associated with development of cerebral palsy regarding the mother and the child at the prenatal, natal and postnatal period were studied. Skeletal deformities of the back, pelvis, upper limbs and lower limbs were studied and possible treatment were applied for them, the highest value was patella alta (71%), while the lowest deformity value was coxa vara (2%).Copyright © 2020, Advanced Scientific Research. All rights reserved.	2020	Al-Azzawi, A.T.H.	International Journal of Pharmaceutical Research	10.31838/ijpr/2020.12.04.279
Exploring Barriers For Early Initiation Of Breastfeeding Among Mothers In The Post-Natal Ward: A Cross-Sectional Study	Introduction: Early Initiation of Breast Feeding (EIBF), referred to as provision of mother's breast milk to infants within 1 hour of birth, is the cornerstone of infant survival and health. In spite of an increase in proportion of mothers practising EIBF over the past decade, the number is still less than satisfactory. Aim(s): To find out the proportion of mothers who practised EIBF, and the factors influencing the same. Material(s) and Method(s): Ninety-seven post-natal mothers were interviewed from June 2017 to August 2017 using a predesigned, pre-tested semi-structured questionnaire. Other relevant information collected from in-patient records. Logistic regression analysis was done. Result(s): Out of 97 mothers, EIBF was practised by 59 (60.82%). Main reason for not initiating EIBF according to the mothers was baby not roomed/bedded-in soon after birth, followed by exhaustion from delivery. Knowledge regarding benefits of EIBF was inadequate. Colostrum feeding was done by 83.51% of mothers. On logistic regression analysis, it was observed that in the multivariate model, education of mother, higher age at marriage, vaginal/vaginal assisted delivery and term/post-term baby were significant factors promoting EIBF. Conclusion(s): EIBF was practised by less than two-thirds of study subjects. Knowledge regarding EIBF was unsatisfactory. This study revealed education of mother, higher age at marriage, vaginal/vaginal assisted delivery and term/post-term baby were significant factors promoting EIBF.Copyright © 2020 Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic Research. All rights reserved.	2020	Pariya, A.;Das, A.	Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic Research	10.7860/JCDR/2020/43041.13437
The Investigation Of Prenatal Screening Test Parameters In Predicting Hellp Syndrome	We aimed to investigate whether first and second-trimester prenatal screening test parameters may be useful in predicting HELLP Syndrome. HELLP syndrome was defined according to Sibai criteria. The collected data were as follows; age, gravida, parity, body mass index, gestational week at labor, route of delivery, birth weight, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), bilirubin, first trimester multiple of medians (MOM) of pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A) and Beta human chorionic gonadotropin (B hCG), second trimester B hCG, unconjugated estriol (uE3) and AFP levels were measured. A total of 80 patients in the study group and 135 patients in control groups were included in the study. All the markers of HELLP syndrome were significantly higher in the study group due to the markers was the criteria for HELLP syndrome. While first-trimester PAPP-A was significantly lower in the study group, B hCG levels were similar between groups. The second trimester B hCG level was significantly higher in the study group. AFP level and uE3 level were not different in the control and study groups. Low PAPP-A levels and high second trimester B hCG levels may be associated with HELLP syndrome in subsequent gestational weeks.Copyright © 2020, Yuzuncu Yil Universitesi Tip Fakultesi. All rights reserved.	2020	Erkilinc, S.;Kara, O.;Coskun, B.;Elmas, B.;Sahin, D.	Eastern Journal of Medicine	10.5505/ejm.2020.16870
Assessment Of Initiation And Establishment Of Lactation Among Primiparous Mothers	Breastfeeding the infants within one hour of birth can reduce infant mortality. Knowledge of exclusive breastfeeding among women is essential when promoting optimal breastfeeding practices. Hence, this study was conducted to evaluate initiation and establishment of lactation, level of knowledge and attitude, and actual practices of breastfeeding among postnatal primigravida mothers. This cross-sectional study was carried out on 400 postnatal primigravida mothers for one year. Mothers were interviewed and their socio-demographic details and data on time of initiation of prelacteal feeds, number of times of feeding per day, and breastfeeding duration were collected using semi-structured questionnaires. Proper counseling on breastfeeding practices including initiation and establishment of lactation was provided on the basis of the responses to the questionnaire. Pre-and post-counseling scores were interpreted and compared for all the primiparous mothers. The association between variables was examined using t-test. P-value of <0.0001 was considered statistically significant. Remarkable improvement in the post-counseling test scores was observed in terms of education, age, residence, religion, mode of delivery, weight, occupation, type of family, and sex of the baby (p<0.0001). A significant improvement was noted in mothers with more than 12th grade level of education and those who were from nuclear families and resided in urban areas (p<0.0001). Knowledge of initiation and establishment of lactation improved in primiparous mothers. Counseling improved the attitude towards lactation in all the primiparous mothers. Hence, wherever possible, relevant health programs on the awareness of timely breastfeeding should be initiated in future for all primiparous mothers.Copyright © 2020, J. K. Welfare and Pharmascope Foundation. All rights reserved.	2020	Karande, P.;Potdar, D.B.;Kshirsagar, V.Y.	International Journal of Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences	10.26452/ijrps.v11iSPL4.3892
Difference In Outcomes Of Category 1 Caesarean Section Patients In Relation To Type Of Anaesthesia Administered: A Tertiary University Hospital Experience	Background: Category-1 caesarean section denotes cases of immediate risk and a life threat to either mother or fetus and delivery is imminent. General anaesthesia (GA) is often the method of choice but it carries significant life threatening risks to the mother. Regional anaesthesia (RA) i.e. single shot spinal anaesthesia, should be considered; as in competent hands it can be performed as quickly and is much safer than GA. Objective(s): To compare the maternal and fetal outcomes between GA and RA and to prove that at least 50% of category-1 cases do not require general anaesthesia. Material(s) and Method(s): Data collection of all category-1 caesarean sections were divided and analysed via the anaesthetic regime used (GA or RA). Result(s): The caesarean section was 47.4%. GA rate of category-1 was 24.3%. No significant difference of fetal outcome between GA and RA. The difference of maternal pre and post-operative haemoglobin is significantly larger in the GA group. Conclusion(s): RA is a safer method of anaesthesia in more than half the cases of category-1. GA is still a primary method of choice in some cases. Proper and effective communication between obstetricians, anaesthetists, and midwives is vital to ensure the safest treatment is given to patients.Copyright © 2018. All rights reserved.	2018	Adlan, A.S.;Zainal Abidin, M.F.;Yim, C.C.W.	Clinical and Experimental Obstetrics and Gynecology	10.12891/ceog3892.2018
Quality Of Childbirth Care In Women Undergoing Labour: Satisfaction With Care Received And How It Changes Over Time	(1) Background: To evaluate women's satisfaction with the care received during childbirth undergoing labour and how this changes over time. (2) Methods: An observational, multicentre and longitudinal study in two public hospitals of Spain with a convenience sample of 248 women during the post-partum period. Satisfaction was evaluated using the Intrapartal-Specific Quality from the Patient's Perspective questionnaire. Socio-demographic and clinical variables were considered. A bivariate analysis evaluated the relationship between satisfaction and the recorded variables to compare the hypotheses, and also to know if there were any significant differences between the scores obtained at the various evaluated time points (three days, 15 days, one year postpartum). The multivariate analysis by binary logistic regression helped complete the study about the variables related to the level of satisfaction; (3) Results: The mean scores for satisfaction at each time point were high, and they lowered with time. The bivariate analysis showed an association between satisfaction and the following variables: 'mother's place of birth', 'level of education', 'type of labour onset', 'type of birth' and 'type of perineal trauma'. For the multivariate analysis, women who gave birth vaginally, began labour spontaneously and had an epidural were more satisfied than those who did not; (4) Conclusion(s): Women seemed to obtain good levels of satisfaction with the care they received. Even so, based on continuously improved quality, we proposed some improvement measures, particularly regarding the physical environment and the information offered to patients. It is important to know at what time experience while giving birth should be evaluated as scores can lower with time as part of its normal evolution.Copyright © 2019, MDPI AG. All rights reserved.	2019	Donate-Manzanares, M.;Rodriguez-Cano, T.;Gomez-Salgado, J.;Rodriguez-Almagro, J.;Hernandez-Martinez, A.;Barrilero-Fernandez, E.;Beato-Fernandez, L.	Journal of Clinical Medicine	10.3390/jcm8040434
Role Of Diagnostic Laparoscopy In Chronic Abdominal Pain With Uncertain Diagnosis: A 1-Year Cross-Sectional Study	Aim: Diagnosis of chronic abdominal pain is a significant clinical challenge. Laparoscopy, a minimally invasive technique, could potentially be diagnostic as well as therapeutic in patients with chronic undiagnosed abdominal pain. This study was aimed to evaluate the role of laparoscopy as an investigative modality in the diagnosis and management of patients with chronic abdominal pain. Material(s) and Method(s): Demographics, clinical data, and medical and surgical history of the patients (55 patients) with chronic abdominal pain were noted. Details of pain such as, severity of pain based on visual analog scale (VAS) score, duration of pain, site of pain, and nature of pain were recorded. Routine along with radiological investigations were also performed. After preoperative investigations, the patients were subjected to diagnostic laparoscopy, either by open or closed technique under general anesthesia. Postoperative assessment of pain was done using VAS score. Result(s): Most of the patients (65.45%) had a duration of pain between 8 weeks and 12 weeks and mean duration of pain was 10.80 +/- 2.78 weeks. Fever was present in 41.82% of the patients. A history of lower segment cesarean section was observed in 5.45% patients. The most common surgical procedure performed was adhesiolysis (30.91%) followed by appendectomy (29.09%). Postoperative pain relief was statistically significant (p < 0.001). Conclusion(s): Laparoscopy offers an effective diagnostic modality and excellent pain relief in the management of patients with chronic abdominal pain. Furthermore, adhesions and inflamed appendix are important causes of chronic abdominal pain. However, studies with a large sample size are required to validate the findings. Clinical significance: Laparoscopy is an investigative modality in the diagnosis and management of patients with chronic abdominal pain.Copyright © The Author(s).	2019	Bellad, A.P.;Murgod, A.A.	World Journal of Laparoscopic Surgery	10.5005/jp-journals-10033-1362
Clinical-Morphological Evaluation Of The Quality Of The Uterine Scar Tissue After Caesarean Section	Purpose: Caesarean section (C.S.) is the most commonly performed operative procedure of the uterus in women of reproductive age. Each of these women increases their likelihood of complications in subsequent pregnancies. There is an obsolete law in obstetrics: once a cesarean, always a cesarean, due to the danger of failure of the uterine scar tissue and the greatly increased possibility of uterine rupture. This necessitates the application of various methods of assessing the sufficiency of the scar tissue before planning further deliveries. The most accurate methods for determining the structure of a tissue are histological, which by their nature can not be used during the pregnancy but they can correlate to clinical ones. Materials/ Methods: Prospective study of 40 pregnant women with previous C.S., divided into groups according to the interval between the operations. Another subsequent division of subgroups to the number of Caesarean sections was made. The morphological indicators were compared to a control group of dermal scar from the same patients. The results of the clinical methods were to be compared with the results of the same patients from the morphological studies. We used clinical methods such as the history of the previous pregnancies and puerperal period, history of previous operations and the recovery after them, ultrasound examination and evaluation of the anterior uterine wall preoperatively. The morphological methods used are: Hematoxylin & eosin staining (H&E), followed by Masson Trichrome for collagen; Weigert-Van Gieson staining for elasticity; staining of immunohistochemistry MIB-1 (Ki-67) for cell proliferation. Result(s): The study group was presented by patients with one or more previous C.S. that were divided in subgroups. The shortest inter-delivery interval was 14 months, the longest - 19 years. The shorter the period between the C.S.s was, the thinner the myometrium. Cases of abnormal healing have been observed, including: myometrial hyperplasia, adenomyosis, myofiber disarray, elastosis, inflammation, fibroids, keloids. These results can be compared to clinical data from patients but mainly with the number of previous C.S. or those with a brief period between them. Conclusion(s): The results from our research proved that multiple C.S. is risk factors for larger defects of the uterine scar but not mandatory. The likelihood of prolonged healing time was higher in cases of more than one C.S. The dimensions of the surgical incision are associated with clinical symptoms such as postmenstrual smears, dysmenorrhoea and chronic pelvic pain.Copyright © 2019, Peytchinski, Gospodin Iliev ET. All right reserved.	2019	Gyokova, E.;Popov, Y.;Ivanova-Yoncheva, Y.;Georgiev, A.;Dimitrova, M.;Betova, T.;Petrov, K.;Popovska, S.	Journal of IMAB - Annual Proceeding (Scientific Papers)	10.5272/jimab.2019251.2433
Factors Affecting The Accuracy Of Ultrasound Fetal Weight Assessment Among Diabetic Patients	Background: Antenatal ultrasound (US) Estimated Fetal Weight (EFW) is an important component of antenatal care. Objective(s): To evaluate the accuracy and consequences of US EFW within one-week interval prior to delivery in diabetic Bahraini population. Design(s): A Retrospective Cohort Study. Setting(s): Bahrain Defence Force Hospital, Bahrain. Method(s): Two hundred eighty-four diabetic women deliveries were reviewed. EFW, actual birth weight, gestational diabetes and mode of delivery were documented and analyzed via stats Direct. P-value of less than 0.05 was considered significant. Result(s): The study population was divided into two groups. Twenty-eight (10%) yield an accurate EFW. Accurate fetal weight estimation was affected by GA, EFW and actual birthweight. Fetal gender, parity, diabetic status, maternal BMI, maternal age, mode of delivery and induction of labor was not altered by the inaccurate estimation. Conclusion(s): Ultrasound EFW in diabetic patient is more accurate at early gestation and for smaller fetuses.Copyright © 2019, Bahrain Medical Bulletin. All rights reserved.	2019	Nadham, A.N.;Naas, B.A.M.;Dayoub, N.	Bahrain Medical Bulletin	
Hygienic Dogma: How We Killed Our Child'S Immunity - Retrospective Review Study	Introduction: Evidence is growing that our indoor-based, ultra-clean lifestyles square measure dangerous for our health and will be fuelling issues such as childhood diabetes, asthma, depression, and poor concentration, and of times falling sick. In an exceedingly verge to stay our self-clean we have a tendency to distract our self from the friendly organisms that might facilitate us in many ways. Without exposure to dirt and germs early in life, the system does not find out how to regulate its reaction to everyday invaders such as dirt and spore. This could result in it this - firing later in life resulting in numerous sicknesses. Apart from this, the mode of delivery conjointly determines the immunity as of this study duct delivery has been drastically reduced putt the kids below nature for immunity. This retrospective study invades into this core space and finds out the prevailing hygienic dogmas that have result in the poor immunity level of this age generation kids. Moreover, conjointly this study tries to seek out the right methodology of maintaining hygiene while not dislodging the helpful organisms. Method(s): A detailed electronic search was made with the key terms and the studies were limited to no more than 10 years, the results were synthesized and the conclusion drawn. Results and Conclusion(s): The results showed that there square measure ton of hygienic dogmas within the name of hygienic hypothesis and heaps of awareness has to be enforced to forestall the first onset of medical specialty immunity issues.Copyright © 2018 JPR Solutions. All Rights Reserved.	2019	Subramanyan, H.H.P.V.;Kamalakannan, M.;Mahesh Kumar, P.G.;Blessy Jasmine, J.	Drug Invention Today	
Evaluation Of Association Factors For Labor Episodic Pain During Epidural Analgesia	Purpose: Epidural analgesia provides safe and effective labor pain relief. However, labor episodic pain can occur during epidural analgesia, requiring epidural top-ups, and may result in decreased patient satisfaction. The primary aim of our study was to investigate the factors associated with labor episodic pain during epidural analgesia. Patients and Methods: Electronic and hardcopy records of labor deliveries between January 2012 and December 2015 were reviewed at KK Women's and Children's Hospital, Singapore. The primary outcome was the prevalence of episodic pain. Demographic, clinical and anesthetic data were retrieved. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were used to identify associated risk factors for labor episodic pain experienced by parturients while receiving epidural analgesia. Model performance was assessed by area under the curve (AUC) from the receiver operating characteristic curve. Result(s): The prevalence of labor episodic pain was 14.2% (2,951 of 20,798 parturients). The risk factors associated with labor episodic pain, which are given here as factor (OR, 95% CI), are the following: need for epidural resiting (11.4, 7.53-17.28), higher pain scores intrapartum (1.34, 1.32-1.36), higher Bromage scores (1.12, 1.02-1.22), the need for instrumental delivery (1.32, 1.16-1.52), the need for cesarean delivery (1.41, 1.26-1.59), the presence of venous puncture (1.29, 1.03-1.62), the presence of dural puncture (14.28, 5.92-34.43), the presence of high block (6.05, 1.39-26.35), the need for a urinary catheter (1.17, 1.17-1.34), larger volumes of local anesthetics used (1.01, 1.01-1.01) and higher body mass index (1.01, 1.01-1.02), and decreased maternal satisfaction (0.97, 0.97-0.98). The AUC was 0.80. Conclusion(s): Knowledge of these factors may allow for future interventions in management to prevent labor episodic pain. Further research is needed to validate these association factors.Copyright © 2019 Chan et al.	2019	Chan, J.J.I.;Gan, Y.Y.;Dabas, R.;Han, N.-L.R.;Sultana, R.;Sia, A.T.H.;Sng, B.L.	Journal of Pain Research	10.2147/JPR.S185073
Neonatal Outcomes Of Elective Caesarean Section At 36 And 37 Weeks Compared With Outcomes At 38 And 39 Weeks	Introduction: Not only late-preterm newborns but also those born as near-term are at increased risk of complications in the first hours of postnatal adaptation. Aim of the study: The aim of the retrospective study was to compare the postnatal status and adaptation disorders in neonates born with elective caesarean section at 36, 37, 38, and 39 weeks of pregnancy in a level-three perinatal care department. Material(s) and Method(s): The research was carried out in a group of 200 newborns born in one year, 2015, and hospitalised from birth in the Department of Neonatology, Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin. Postnatal status and occurrence of complications during the adaptation period were compared. The obtained results were compared between subgroups using appropriate statistical analysis methods. Result(s): In the group of newborns born in weeks 36 and 37 of pregnancy, significantly lower (p < 0.00001, p < 0.0002) birthweight (2688 g, 3208 g vs. 3524 g), lower Apgar score in the first and fifth minute of life (Me 9, 10 vs. 10; p < 0.00001, p < 0.05), and lower frequency of breastfeeding from birth (p < 0.0001, p < 0.002) were found in comparison to those born in the 39th week of pregnancy (22%, 70% vs. 94%). In addition, the tendency for hypothermia was significantly more frequently (p < 0.001, p < 0.02) observed (36%, 26% vs. 8%), these newborns were more often required to stay in the observation room (80%, 28% vs. 8%; p < 0.0001, p < 0.01) and in the incubator (74%, 26% vs. 8%; p < 0.0001, p < 0.02), and significantly more often demonstrated symptoms of respiratory failure (48%, 18% vs. 4%; p < 0.0001, p < 0.05). The length of hospitalisation was also significantly longer (7.18, 5.42 vs. 4.46 days; p < 0.0002, p < 0.05). Conclusion(s): Due to the high risk of complications during the adaptation period, especially from the respiratory system, an elective caesarean section performed before the 38th week of pregnancy is not an optimal solution for the newborn, unless there are important medical indications for such a termination of pregnancy. The most optimal term for elective caesarean section from the point of view of the newborn's interests is the 38th or 39th week of pregnancy.Copyright © 2018 Termedia Publishing House Ltd.. All rights reserved.	2018	Czeszynska, M.B.;Sochaczewska, D.;Sontowska, A.;Grzymala, A.;Zietek, M.	Pediatria Polska	10.5114/polp.2018.77997
Association Of Pregnancy-Related Factors And Cardiovascular Disease In The Long Term	Aim To observe the association of pregnancy-related factors on the incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Introduction CVD is one of the leading causes of death in women. It really emphasizes the need for early recognition of cardiovascular risk in women. Heart disease in women poses a major challenge in that the first events are more likely to be fatal. Pregnancy itself predicts cardiovascular disease in later life and is a screening test for CVD. Methods Total 136 female patients from the outpatient clinic, as well as patients of our hospital, were included in our retrospective single-center study. Along with demographic data and details of risk factors, the reproductive history of all patients such as age at first pregnancy, number of children, any hormonal therapy, and mode and place of delivery were noted. Pregnancy-related data, such as the history of hypertension, diabetes, abortion, pregnancy loss; preterm delivery; and the weight of the newborn were taken into consideration. We excluded unmarried and nulliparous women. Results The study population comprised 136 female patients. There were 69 (50.74%) in group 1 (coronary artery disease [CAD] group) and 67 (49.36%) in group 2 (non-CAD group). Mean age of patients at enrollment was 53.2 +/- 12.52 years. Twenty-seven (19.8%) patients fell under lost pregnancy or child category, and abortions and preterm delivery were faced in 26 (19.1%). Seventy-one (52.2%) patients attained menopause whereas hysterectomy was done in 35 (25.7%). The average age of hysterectomy was 38.37 +/- 8.50 years, and that for menopause was 46.78 +/- 5.04 years. During pregnancy, the history of hypertension was given only in 4 (3%), diabetes was in given none, and history of a low birth weight of the newborn was given in 3 (2.2%) women. The univariate analysis was done to see the statistical significance of mainly pregnancy factors on long-term cardiac outcomes along with risk factors. Generally, hypertension (p = 0.01) and diabetes (p = 0.01) had significance with cardiac outcomes. In spite of these, the history of a lost pregnancy/child and pregnancy complications both have shown near significance, that is, p = 0.06. Conclusion Our study suggests an impact of pregnancy loss irrespective of the etiology on the future cardiac outcomes as along with predominant impact factors of hypertension and diabetes.Copyright © 2018 Women in Cardiology and Related Sciences.	2018	Garre, I.;Nemani, L.;Nallagasu, R.	Indian Journal of Cardiovascular Disease in Women - WINCARS	10.1055/s-0038-1677054
Initiation Of Breastfeeding And Type Of Feeding Pattern Among The Post Natal Mothers On The Basis Of Parity And Type Of Delivery	Aim: To determine if caesarean delivery may be a factor impacting early and exclusive breastfeeding and the impact of cesarean section deliveries on timely initiation of breastfeeding practice. Material(s) and Method(s): This was a cross-sectional study carried out among postnatal mothers who were admitted in our postnatal ward of rural hospital. We surveyed 500 postnatal mothers between the period from JUNE 2021 to January 2022. All mothers were explained about the purpose of our study. Written informed consent was obtained from the mothers who were ready to participate in the study. Face to face interviews were conducted by the researchers and Hindi and English languages were used for the same. Questions were asked regarding initiation of breast feeding and pattern of breast feeding. Data entry done in Microsoft word excels sheet. Result(s): Among total 500 mothers, 14 (2.8%) mothers were less than 20 years of age, 163 (32.6%) mothers were between 21 to 25 years, 236 (47.2%) mothers were 26 to 30 years and 87 (17.4%) mothers were above 30 years of age. Among 192(38.4%) primigravida mothers, 111 (22.2%) were delivered via NVD and 81 (16.2%) were delivered via LSCS respectively. Among 308 (61.6%) multigravida mothers, 183 (36.6%) were delivered via NVD and 125 (25%) were delivered via LSCS. Out of 500 mothers, 485 (97%) mothers administered colostrum to their newborns. Out of 500 newborns, 18 (3.6%) newborns were given prelacteal feeds. Eleven newborns received honey and 7 received gutti. Out of total 500 mothers, 128 (25.6%) mothers started exclusive breast feeding however switched to mixed feeding in due course of time. Conclusion(s): It was observed that the breastfeeding initiation period was different for the different modes of delivery as well as parity. Cesarean delivery and primipara were associated with a low proportion of breastfeeding initiation though the number increased during next 24 hours. Therefore, it is highly recommended that the health care providers should provide adequate knowledge regarding the breast feeding and proper care of the breasts must be taught during the antenatal period.Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Medknow Publications. All rights reserved.	2022	Krishna, G.B.M.;Gupta, H.;Grover, N.;Krishna, D.S.	Journal of Pharmaceutical Negative Results	10.47750/pnr.2022.13.S09.1219
Survey Of Cutaneous Findings In Newborns In Saudi Arabia	Background: Skin lesions are commonly observed in newborns. They have been studied in different regions of the world. There are limited reports from Arab countries and they have not been studied in Saudi Arabia. Objective(s): To determine the occurrence rate of cutaneous findings in Saudi newborns and evaluate their association with maternal and newborn factors. Method(s): This is a prospective study of cutaneous findings in newborns delivered at King Fahd Hospital of the University between November 2015 and May 2016. Through performing dermatologic examinations, the relationships between the neonatal skin findings and gender, neonatal age, route of delivery, nationality, skin type, maternal age, illnesses, intake of drugs, and consanguinity were statistically evaluated. Result(s): A total of 313 newborns were included in this descriptive prospective cohort study. Skin findings were found in all the examined infants. The commonest skin finding were Mongolian spot (63.07%) followed by milia (61.34%), erythema toxicum neonatorum (24.92%) and physiological scaling (18.01%). The prevalence of salmon patch was higher in females, milia was more common in newborn examined at the age of 24-48 h. Mongolian spots were more frequent in babies whose mothers were having diabetes mellitus and physiological scaling was more prevalent in newborns whose parents were relatives. Conclusion(s): All newborns had cutaneous lesions. Skin type, baby gender, nationality and age of the baby at the time of examination were influential factors in congenital melanocytic nevus, linea nigra, salmon patch and milia. Moreover, illnesses during pregnancy and consanguinity had a role on Mongolian spot and physiological scaling occurrences.Copyright © 2016 The Authors	2017	Budair, F.;Aljabre, S.;Alquorain, N.;Alnafea, N.;Aljabre, A.;Alburaey, A.	Journal of Dermatology and Dermatologic Surgery	10.1016/j.jdds.2016.12.001
Assessment Of The Relation Of Striae Gravidarum And Scar Characteristics With Peritoneal Adhesions In Patients With Previous Cesarean Section	Background Cesarean section is the most common major obetetric surgery and oldest operation in the field the of abdominal surgery. Aim of the study: to evaluate the role of striae gravidarum and scar characteristics in the prediction of peritoneal adhesions in patients with previous one cesarean section. Patient and method:In this cross-sectional study, we evaluated 113 pregnant women at > 36 weeks of gestation,had previous one cesarean delivery(regardless the indication of the previous c/s) who admitted to the gynecology and obstetric unit of Salah al-deen general hospital and undergoed their second (emergency or elective) cs,study done over a period from 15th December 2021 to 15th May 2022 . All participants gave informed consent before being included in the study.. An interview was carried out with these patients using questionnaire form .The study authorized by department of gynecology and obstetric in Tikrit university/college of medicine. Half of sample evaluated for SG (have flat non pigmented scar) and other half evaluated for scar characterestics (davey's score=0). Result(s):Average age(18-42) year, GA(36-40+2) weeks,64% of cases are 38 wks, BMI range (24-34.4),only 4 patients were smokers .Also 64% of participants are P1. 56.6% of cases had peritoneal adhesion(PA) in varying degrees. Increasing GA,BMI shows significance relation with mild and severe SG(p-value =0.044,0.004)respectively, depressed scars and pigmented one appear to be more prominent when BMI(25-30)(p-value=0.007) and time since previous c/s was >=2 years(p-value=0.047). Scar pigmentation found to be more in P1 women(p-v=0.035). keloid scar correlate significantly with gap between c/s 2 years(p-value=0.015). Higher degrees of peritoneal adhesions were found in cases with severe SG(p-value=0.0006), although mild adhesions correlate with mild SG. Severe adhesions found obviously in depressed scars and pigmented scars found in 58.8% of the cases which had PA(p-value=0.0006). Scar length 13 cm associated with presence of PA in 75.7% of study sample,(p-value=0.032). Conclusion(s): Abdominal striae gravidarum are significant predictor for intra peritoneal adhesions. Women with severe striae gravidarum had severe intraperitoneal adhesions. Cesarean skin scar pigmentation and presence of non-flat scars depressed specifically could be associated with the presence of intra-abdominal peritoneal adhesions during repeat CD. Increasing scar length can predictperitoneal adhesionsCopyright © 2022, Anka Publishers. All rights reserved.	2022	Hasan, H.H.;Mahmoud, T.I.;Mukhtar, B.G.	NeuroQuantology	10.14704/nq.2022.20.8.NQ44917
Clinical Risk Factors For Poor Neonatal Outcomes In Umbilical Cord Prolapse	Objectives: To clarify the clinical risk factors associated with poor neonatal outcomes due to umbilical cord prolapse (UCP). Method(s): A postal questionnaire survey was attempted in Japan. The clinical risk factors and managements associated with poor neonatal outcomes were analyzed in cases of UCP treated in Japan. Result(s): A total of 267 cases of UCP (out of 2 037 460 total deliveries) were analyzed. The rates of intrauterine death, neonatal death and survival with disability were 3.4%, 5.6% and 7.1%, respectively. The multivariate regression analysis for these poor neonatal outcomes revealed that the significant risk factors included a prolapsed amniotic sac (adjusted odds ratio (aOR), 4.49), preterm labor (aOR, 2.99) and replacement of the prolapsed umbilical cord into the uterus (aOR, 2.87). However, UCP that occurred during labor (aOR, 0.28) and emergency cesarean section (aOR, 0.11) were associated with a reduction in the rates of poor outcomes. The interval between the diagnosis of UCP and delivery was significantly longer in the infants with a poor outcome than intact survival (median 30 versus 24 min, p = 0.048). Conclusion(s): An emergency cesarean section should be carried out immediately to ensure a better outcome for the infant.Copyright © 2015 Informa UK Ltd.	2016	Hasegawa, J.;Sekizawa, A.;Ikeda, T.;Koresawa, M.;Ishiwata, I.;Kawabata, M.;Kinoshita, K.	Journal of Maternal-Fetal and Neonatal Medicine	10.3109/14767058.2015.1058772
Investigating The Quality-Of-Life Scale In Patients With Placental Adhesion Disorder Undergoing A Cesarean Hysterectomy And Partial Uterine Resection	Objectives: This study aimed to investigate the postoperative quality-of-life of patients with placental adhesion disorder undergoing a cesarean hysterectomy and partial uterine resection. Method(s): This was a prospective study performed on 40 patients aged from 25 to 35 years. The subjects were divided into two groups based on whether the uterus was preserved or not following a cesarean hysterectomy and on partial uterine resection. The Turkish version of SF-36 Quality-of-life Scale consisting of 36 items and 8 subscales was applied to the patients. Result(s): The participants had a mean age of 31.3 +/- 3.2 years. The mean parity, number of cesarean sections and body mass index was 3.45, 3.22 and 29.1 +/- 2.9, respectively. The mean physical function score was 83.4 +/- 11.61 in the cesarean hysterectomy group and 93.67 +/- 8.55 in the partial uterine resection group. A significant difference was found between the cesarean hysterectomy and partial uterine resection groups in terms of their health-related quality-of-life (p = 0.005). Conclusion(s): Patients who underwent partial uterine resection had improved health-related quality-of-life compared to patients who had a cesarean hysterectomy. Choosing uterus-preserving surgery in suitable patients by evaluating the degree of placental adhesion and adhesion size may have a positive effect on the quality-of-life after surgery.Copyright © 2022 by Prusa Medical Publishing.	2022	Okcu, N.T.;Uysal, G.;Gurbuz, T.;Nazik, H.;Narin, R.	European Research Journal	10.18621/eurj.866522
Agreement Of Transvaginal Ultrasound (Tvs) And Per Operative Findings In Detecting Retained Products Of Conception (Rpocs)	Aim: To determine the diagnostic accuracy of TVS and Per-operative findings in diagnosing retained products of conceptions (RPOCs) Methods: A total of 161 suspected cases of RPOCs, visited the Radiology department, Shalamar Hospital, Lahore from 01-01-2021 to 31-12-2021were done ultrasound using high-frequency probe for TVS.. Result(s): Out of 161 patients, 97 were found to have RPOCs on TVS. The mean age was 29.54+/-6.10 and the mean gestational age was17.02+/-12.99. In 97(60.2%) cases having RPOCs, 46(63.9%) cases were with H/o abortion, 39(79.6%) with miscarriages, 12 cases (30%) with C-section. This study shows a significant association between TVS finding and per-operative findings i.e. 97(60.2%) cases have RPOCs detected by ultrasound and also detected by per-operative finding of mild and moderate amount of RPOCs. Conclusion(s): TVS is the initial modality for detecting RPOCs. USG is a noninvasive technique and can be done on portable USG machine.Copyright © 2022 Lahore Medical And Dental College. All rights reserved.	2022	Zafar Rafique, M.;Ejaz, M.;Gulshan, M.;Tahir, M.;Abid, M.;Butt, B.	Pakistan Journal of Medical and Health Sciences	10.53350/pjmhs2216951
Perinatal Factors Associated With Neonatal Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone In Normal Newborns	Purpose: This study was to evaluate the effect of neonatal, maternal, and delivery factors on neonatal thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) of healthy newborns. Method(s): Medical records of 705 healthy infants born through normal vaginal delivery were reviewed. Neonatal TSH levels obtained by neonatal screening tests were analyzed in relation to perinatal factors and any associations with free thyroxine (FT4) and 17-alpha hydroxyprogesterone (17OHP) levels. Result(s): An inverse relationship was found between TSH and sampling time after birth. Twin babies and neonates born by vacuum-assisted delivery had higher TSH levels than controls. First babies had higher TSH levels than subsequent babies. Birth weight, gestational age, maternal age and duration from the rupture of the membrane to birth were not related to neonatal TSH. There were no significant differences in TSH level according to sex, Apgar scores, labor induction, the presence of maternal disease and maternal medications. There was a positive association between TSH and 17OHP level but not between TSH and FT4 level. Multiple linear regression analyses showed that sampling time, mode of delivery, birth order, and 17OHP level were significant factors affecting neonatal TSH level. Conclusion(s): Neonatal TSH levels of healthy normal newborns are related with multiple factors. Acute stress during delivery may influence the neonatal TSH level in early neonatal period.Copyright © 2016 Annals of Pediatric Endocrinology & Metabolism.	2016	Lee, S.Y.	Annals of Pediatric Endocrinology and Metabolism	10.6065/apem.2016.21.4.206
A Retrospective Study Of Placenta Creta: A Six Year Experience And Histopathological Insights	Objectives: The aims of this study were to describe the histopathological findings of placenta creta samples obtained over a six year period and to report the obstetric conditions related to the histopathologic findings.;Materials and Methods: Pathology records from gravid hysterectomies performed due to placenta creta from 2006 to 2012 were reviewed. We evaluated the decidual layer, percent of multinucleation, and depth of invasion of Interstitial Trophoblasts (ITs) at the implantation site. Spiral arteries were also assessed to determine the degree of remodeling.;Results: During the study period, 20 cases of placenta creta occurred: 3 (15%) were placenta accreta, 7 (35%) were placenta increta, and 10 (50%) were placenta percreta. In 25% of cases, vessels had no remodeling at all, whereas 45% had partially remodeled vessels, and 30% completely remodeled vessels. The proportion of incomplete or complete physiological changes in the vascular wall did not significantly differ between the different subtypes of creta (P=0.68). Depth of IT invasion varied significantly between the groups (accreta 1.30+/-0.17 mm, increta 3.56+/-1.12 mm, and percreta 2.00+/-1.31 mm, P=0.011). The number of multinucleated trophoblasts in the placenta accreta and increta were higher than those in placenta percreta cases. A history of Cesarean Section (CS) was present in 80% of the patients. All cases with placenta percreta (N=10) had undergone more than two previous CSs. Placenta previa was identified in four cases (20%).;Conclusion: Uterine damage caused by CSs results in poor decidualization, abnormal trophoblastic invasion, incomplete vascular remodeling, fewer multinuclei trophoblasts and deep infiltrative pathology.Copyright © 2014 The Author(s).	2014	Sayar, H.;Gurbuz, E.;Canaz, E.;Seringec, N.;Arikan, D.C.;Ciralik, H.	International Journal of Women's Health and Reproduction Sciences	10.15296/ijwhr.2015.11
Determinants Of Patient Satisfaction In The Obstetrics Ward At A University Hospital In Saudi Arabia	Patient satisfaction has been an important indicator of measuring quality in health care. It is the health care recipient's reaction to aspects of his or her service experience. Patient satisfaction measures have been incorporated into reports of hospital and health plan quality. So, we aimed to determine the factors that affect patient satisfaction in the obstetrics ward of a university hospital in Saudi Arabia be able to render useful information for the hospital's management and help improve patient satisfaction in the aforementioned country. This cross-sectional study was conducted in the obstetrics ward at King Abdulaziz University Hospital (KAUH) in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. During the period November 2012 till March 2013, a questionnaire regarding patient satisfaction was given to 150 patients ready for discharge from the hospital. Data were obtained from the response of the patients, based on the care received during hospitalization. The responders are equally dividing regarding the nationality 75 Saudi patients and 75 non-Saudi patients. The percentage of respondents following in KAUH was 97 (64.7%) while those who are not 53 (35.3%). Regard the educational level 80 (53.3%) had high school or lower level of education and 54 (36%) had higher education. There were 120 (80%) respondents who were admitted through ER and 30 (20%) who were admitted through OPD. 105 (70%) of the participants delivered by way of SVD while 45 (30%) delivered through caesarian section. The results showed that majority of the Saudi participants (86.67%) were satisfied on most of the services provided by the hospital as compared to non-Saudi respondents (13.33%). In conclusion, there are several factors affecting patient satisfaction in the obstetrics and gynecology department in KAUH like demographic characters, mode of admission way of delivery, the type of anesthesia and days of hospitalization. The results showed that the services provided received high satisfaction rate among the local population, contrary to the patient respondents from different culture and nationality who requires more attention and care. In the end, we need to continuously improve our service to become the best healthcare institution in Saudi Arabia and researchers recommended to conduct more studies in the future about the different factors affecting patient satisfaction.Copyright © Medwell Journals, 2014.	2014	Almrstani, A.M.S.;Eldeek, B.;Abubakr, H.;Alnoman, A.;Anshasi, A.	Research Journal of Medical Sciences	10.3923/rjmsci.2014.94.98
Clinico-Pathological Profile Of Adnexal Torsion Cases: A Retrospective Analysis From A Tertiary Care Teaching Hospital	Introduction: Torsion of the adnexa is a rare condition which can be potentially lethal for the women. The clinical presentation can be varied and can be seen any age group. Understanding the clinical and pathological profile of patients suffering from adenexal torsion can guide the clinicians in diagnosing and managing the condition. Objective(s): To analyze the clinical and pathological profile of adnexal torsion cases in a tertiary care teaching hospital Material(s) and Method(s): The study was a retrospective analysis of hospital records. It included all cases of adnexal torsion that underwent laprotomy between January 2007 to December 2012 in a tertiary care teaching hospital. The study was approved by the Institute's human Ethics Committee. Result(s): A total of 18 patients were included in the study. Majority (66.7%) of participants were in the reproductive age group. Abdominal pain was the most common symptom seen in 77.8% of patients. The other symptoms were abdominal distension, back ache and dysuria. Majority of the women belonged to Para 2 (44.4%) and Para 3 (27.8%). The proportion of women with one and two LSCS was 11.1% and 16.7% respectively. Tenderness (38.9%), mass (22.2%) were the common per abdomen findings. Perspeculum findings were normal in majority (88.9%) of the participants. About 39.2% of the patients presented with a mass in either fornices or pouch of Douglas on pervaginal examination. The side of lesion was only on right in 9 (50%), only left in 7(38.9%) and both sides in 2 (11.1%) of cases. On histopathological examination, of the lesions there were mucinous cystadenoma (33.3%) serous cystadenoma (16.7%) and benign cystic teratoma (16.7%) as most common lesions. Conclusion(s): Adnexal torsion, though a rare clinical condition can present as an emergency most of the times. High index of suspicion is required for diagnosis, as the clinical presentation can be varied. But the diagnosis can be made certain only on the operating table, either by laparoscopy. Avoiding a delay in operating upon the patient will help prevent complications, and aid in conserving the ovary.	2014	Vijayalakshmi, K.;Reddy, G.M.M.;Subbiah, V.N.;Sathiya, S.;Arjun, B.	Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic Research	10.7860/JCDR/2014/8167.4456
Abdominal Wall Endometriosis: Clinical Presentation And Imaging Features With Emphasis On Sonography	Objective(s): The purpose of our study was to evaluate clinical findings and sonographic features of abdominal wall endometriosis and also to report its CT and MRI appearance. Material(s) and Method(s): A retrospective study was performed from January 2008 - December 2012, yielding 12 surgically proven cases of abdominal wall endometriosis. All patients had undergone sonography including power Doppler examination. Additional CT was performed in one case and MRI in four. Pathological material was preoperatively obtained by sonographically guided puncture in six patients. The clinical data were analyzed and the imaging studies were reviewed by radiologist working in consensus. Result(s): All patients had a history of at least one prior cesarean section. All patients' C/S was done in this institution and 1500 C/S were performed within a period of 5 years giving a frequency of 0.8% scar endometriosis after C/S. All presented with focal pain near the surgical scar, which was cyclic in three patients. Nine patients presented with a palpable mass near the scar. Sonography detected 11 lesions within the abdominal wall with a mean diameter 25mm and in one case sonography could not identify any lesion. All lesions were hypoechoic, vascular, and solid, with some cystic changes in one. MRI CT scan showed enhancement of the lesions. Finally histopathologically all were proved as endometriosis'. Conclusion(s): Abdominal wall endometriosis frequently presents with noncyclic symptoms. Imaging findings of a solid mass near a cesarean section scar strongly suggest its diagnosis.Copyright © 2014, Obstetrical and Gynaecological Society of Bangladesh. All rights reserved.	2014	Forhad, Q.E.;Biswas, A.A.;Islam, Sk.M.;Alam, Md.S.	Bangladesh Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology	10.3329/bjog.v29i1.30436
Incidence Of Respiratory Syncytial Virus Among Young Children In United Arab Emirates	Background: Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common cause of acute lower respiratory tract infections among children less than 2 years old. The aim of this study is to determine the incidence of RSV infection in children<2 years old and to evaluate the seasonal variation of this virus in United Arab Emirates (UAE) between 2018-and 2020. Methods: This was a retrospective study and data was collected for all patients less than 24 months of age who visited the University Hospital Sharjah (UHS) with acute respiratory tract infections (ARTIs) from 1st January 2018 to 1st January 2020. Seasonal variations were determined by analyzing the monthly RSV‐positive isolation cases via time series analysis. Results: Of the 2496 children diagnosed with ARTIs, 496 (18.79%) were detected positive for RSV antigen with males being more likely to be infected (53.8%) than females (46.2%). Moreover, higher RSV positive cases were found among infants≤6-onths old (39.7%) than children>6 months old (5.4%). Also, children>6 months of age and who were born by cesarean section were more prone to infection by RSV than other ages. Viral and bacterial co-infections have also been observed among 3.8% of the positive cases. Regarding the seasonality of RSV infection, it was detected in winter and peaked in October to December, while two small peaks were observed in January, April and May. Conclusions: The pattern of RSV in the UAE parallels that of tropical countries. These findings may guide in efforts towards healthcare provision, vaccination, and implementation of RSV prevention. © 2023 Journal of Natural Science, Biology and Medicine.	2023	Saeed, B.Q.;Sharif, H.A.;Adrees, A.O.;Al-Shahrabi, R.;Fahady, K.S.;Halwani, R.;Alsalhi, N.R.	Journal of Natural Science, Biology and Medicine	10.4103/jnsbm.JNSBM_14_1_9
The Health Impacts Of Hospital Delivery Practices	Treatment practices vary widely across hospitals, often with little connection to patients’ medical needs. We assess impacts of these differences in delivery practices at childbirth. We find that infants quasi-randomly delivered at hospitals with higher C-section rates are born in better shape and are less likely to be readmitted, with suggestive evidence of improved survival. These benefits are driven by avoidance of prolonged labors that pose risks to infant health. In contrast, these infants are more likely to visit the emergency department for respiratory-related problems, consistent with a large observational literature linking C-section to chronic reductions in respiratory health. © 2023, American Economic Journal: Economic Policy. All Rights Reserved.	2023	Card, D.;Fenizia, A.;Silver, D.	American Economic Journal: Economic Policy	10.1257/pol.20210034
Anxiety Reduction Through Obstetric Consultation Combined With Ultrasound Examination In Women After Cesarean Section	Background: Women are at increased risk of developing anxiety or depression disorders after Cesarean section (CS). This study aims to evaluate whether an appointment with a senior obstetrician combined with an ultrasound examination reduces levels of anxiety in women after CS. Methods: A prospective observational study was conducted in Sweden. Women underwent an appointment with an obstetrician 6–9 months after their first CS. Before the appointment, women were asked to fill in the state and trait subscales of the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and the Beck's Depression Inventory. The women's experience of the childbirth was discussed and an ultrasound examination of the hysterotomy scar was performed. After the appointment, the participants filled in the state scale again. The women were divided into low trait anxiety (< 40) and high trait anxiety (≥ 40) groups for comparisons. Results: 147 women were included. Of those, 114 (78%) had lower trait score <40 (mean 29.2 ± 5.4) and 33 (22%) had higher trait score ≥ 40 (mean 47.4 ± 6.5). Mean difference of state score in the low trait anxiety group before and after the examination was 4.8 ± 5.6 (95% CI 7.20 to 11.97, p<0.0001) and in the high trait anxiety group, the mean difference was 9.2 ± 6.5 (95% CI 3.77 to 5.82, p<0.0001). Limitations: A clinical examination with a diagnosis of depression in these women was not made by a psychiatrist. Conclusions: A supportive obstetric consultation combined with an ultrasound examination of the uterine scar decreased anxiety levels in women after CS, particularly in patients with higher anxiety © 2022	2022	Vikhareva, O.;Nedopekina, E.;Sjöström, K.	Journal of Affective Disorders Reports	10.1016/j.jadr.2022.100342
Necrotizing Enterocolitis In Term Neonates: Possible Risk Factors	Background: Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is a common surgical disease in premature neonates, however, it may occasionally occur in term neonates. The etiology of NEC in prematurity is multifactorial but is still not well understood in term neonates. In this study, the maternal and neonatal risk factors, along with underlying pathology that may precipitate NEC in term neonates are investigated. Methods: A retrospective study investigating the maternal and neonatal risk factors for NEC in term neonates (G.A ≥37 weeks) was performed over an 8-years period (January 2009 to March 2017). We used the second group of healthy term neonates over the same period as a control group. The data were collected from medical records. Term babies with the primary diagnosis of NEC were included in the review. Premature neonates (G.A <37 weeks) and NEC secondary to intestinal obstruction (e.g. Hirschsprung's disease) were excluded from the study. Results: Of 194 babies with NEC, 14 were term neonates. Maternal risk factors: Maternal age, Rhesus status, nicotine use, medication use, chronic and gestational illness were not found to be significant, however, maternal methamphetamine (MA) abuse was found to be a significant risk factor. Neonatal risk factors: Genetic disorder, mode of delivery, type of milk, and invasive procedure were not found to be significant, but the presence of congenital heart disease (CHD) was a significant risk factor. Three neonates with CHD (3/4) in the group of term neonates with NEC also had maternal MA use. Conclusion: NEC in term neonates is rarely encountered. CHD is well known to precipitate the disease in premature or full-term neonates, as also noted in this cohort. MA usage was also noted as a possible underlying cause. © 2020 Universidad de Alcala. All rights reserved.	2020	Elhosny, A.;De Vos, C.;Banieghbal, B.	Journal of Neonatal Surgery	10.47338/jns.v9.537
The Association Between Antenatal Corticosteroid Use In Late-Preterm And Early-Term Pregnancy And Nonreassuring Fetal Status	This study aimed to compare perinatal outcomes, including nonreassuring fetal status, according to antenatal corticosteroid therapy (ACT) use during late-preterm and early-term pregnancies. This was a retrospective cohort study of women with singleton pregnancies who were at risk of late-preterm (34-36+6 weeks) birth or early-term (37-38+6 weeks) scheduled cesarean section from August 2017-July 2019. ACT was administered until June 2018, after which a policy was implemented such that ACT was not used for pregnant women in the above circumstances. Women were grouped based on whether they delivered before or after the policy change and were subdivided into late-preterm birth and early-term scheduled cesarean section groups to reduce variations in newborn outcomes. Multivariable logistic regression was used to determine whether the use of antenatal corticosteroids increased the odds of perinatal outcomes. In total, 216 women (215 neonates, 1 stillborn) were included. In the latepreterm delivery group, the rate of nonreassuring fetal status was significantly higher in the antenatal corticosteroid group than in the non-corticosteroid group (33.3% vs 12.0%, P = 0.017). In the earlyterm delivery group, the rate was non-significantly higher in the antenatal corticosteroid use group (19.0% vs 6.3%, P = 0.091). In the multivariable logistic regression, ACT was associated with an increased risk of nonreassuring fetal status (P = 0.025) and a reduced incidence of transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN) (P = 0.011). We determined for the first time that ACT in late-preterm and early-term pregnancy is associated with nonreassuring fetal status. Here, ACT in latepreterm and early-term pregnancy had no benefit beyond decreasing the TTN rate.Copyright © 2021 S.O.G. CANADA Inc.. All rights reserved.	2021	Park, J.E.;Park, J.K.;Jo, H.C.;Cho, I.A.;Baek, J.C.	Clinical and Experimental Obstetrics and Gynecology	10.31083/j.ceog.2021.01.2250
Partial Shear Connection In Light Steel Composite Beams	A new form of light steel composite beam has been developed that uses C sections acting in tension with shear connectors in the form of screws or bolts or perforations in the web of the C section. The shear and bending resistance is also increased by using side C sections to the beams. Bending tests on point-loaded beams of 0.8, 1.1 and 1.7 m span showed that for the short span beams, the longitudinal shear bond strength of the base C sections is 1.4 N/mm2 for plain C sections and 2.3 N/mm2 for perforated C sections when expressed over the horizontal plane. Plain side C sections added 80% and perforated side Cs added 130% to the load-bearing capacity of the composite beams with base Cs. The theory is extended to cover elastic design taking account of partial shear connection in which the shear stiffness of the perforated web of the C section is approximately 10 N/mm3 (per unit web area) and that of the plain web is approximately 3 N/mm3. © 2018 Elsevier Ltd	2019	Lawson, R.M.;Taufiq, H.	Journal of Constructional Steel Research	10.1016/j.jcsr.2018.11.005
Hygienic Dogma: How We Killed Our Child’S Immunity - Retrospective Review Study	Introduction: Evidence is growing that our indoor-based, ultra-clean lifestyles square measure dangerous for our health and will be fuelling issues such as childhood diabetes, asthma, depression, and poor concentration, and of times falling sick. In an exceedingly verge to stay our self-clean we have a tendency to distract our self from the friendly organisms that might facilitate us in many ways. Without exposure to dirt and germs early in life, the system does not find out how to regulate its reaction to everyday invaders such as dirt and spore. This could result in it this - firing later in life resulting in numerous sicknesses. Apart from this, the mode of delivery conjointly determines the immunity as of this study duct delivery has been drastically reduced putt the kids below nature for immunity. This retrospective study invades into this core space and finds out the prevailing hygienic dogmas that have result in the poor immunity level of this age generation kids. Moreover, conjointly this study tries to seek out the right methodology of maintaining hygiene while not dislodging the helpful organisms. Methods: A detailed electronic search was made with the key terms and the studies were limited to no more than 10 years, the results were synthesized and the conclusion drawn. Results and Conclusions: The results showed that there square measure ton of hygienic dogmas within the name of hygienic hypothesis and heaps of awareness has to be enforced to forestall the first onset of medical specialty immunity issues. © 2018 JPR Solutions. All Rights Reserved.	2019	Subramanyan, H.H.P.V.;Kamalakannan, M.;Mahesh Kumar, P.G.;Blessy Jasmine, J.	Drug Invention Today	
An Actuarial Investigation Into Maternal Hospital Cost Risk Factors For Public Patients	We investigate an actuarial approach to identifying the factors impacting government-funded maternal hospital costs in Australia, with a focus on women who experience adverse birth outcomes. We propose a two-phase modelling methodology that adopts actuarial methods from typical insurance claim cost modelling and extends to other statistical techniques to account for the large volume of covariates available for modelling. Specifically, Classification and Regression Trees and generalised linear mixed models are employed to analyse a data set that links longitudinal survey and administrative data from a large sample of women. The results show that adverse births are a statistically significant risk factor affecting maternal hospital costs in the antenatal and delivery periods. Other significant cost risk factors in the delivery period include mode of delivery, private health insurance status, diabetes, smoking status, area of residence and onset of labour. We demonstrate the efficacy of using actuarial techniques in non-traditional areas and highlight how the results can be used to inform public policy. © Institute and Faculty of Actuaries 2017.	2018	William, J.;Martin, M.A.;Chojenta, C.;Loxton, D.	Annals of Actuarial Science	10.1017/S174849951700015X
Apnoea In Infants With Bronchiolitis: Incidence And Risk Factors For A Prediction Model; [Apneas En Lactantes Con Bronquiolitis: Incidencia Y Factores De Riesgo Para Un Modelo De Predicción]	Introduction: The presence of apnoea in acute bronchiolitis (AB) varies between 1.2% and 28.8%, depending on the series, and is one of its most fearsome complications. The aim of this study is to determine the incidence of apnoea in hospitalised patients diagnosed with AB, and to define their associated risk factors in order to construct a prediction model. Patients and method: A retrospective observational study of patients admitted to a tertiary hospital in the last 5 years with a diagnosis of AB, according to the classic criteria. Data was collected on the frequency of apnoea and related clinical variables to find risk factors in a binary logistic regression model for the prediction of apnoea. A ROC curve was developed with the model. Results: Apnoea was recorded during the admission of 53 (4.4%) patients out of a total 1,197 cases found. The risk factors included in the equation were: Female (OR 0.6, 95% CI: 0.27-1.37), Caesarean delivery (OR: 3.44, 95% CI: 1.5-7.7), Postmenstrual age ≤43 weeks (OR: 6.62, 95% CI: 2.38-18.7), Fever (OR: 0.33, 95% CI: 0.09-1.97), Low birth weight (OR: 5.93, 95% CI: 2.23-7.67), Apnoea observed by caregivers before admission (OR: 5.93, 95% CI: 2.64-13.3), and severe bacterial infection (OR: 3.98, 95% CI: 1.68-9.46). The optimal sensitivity and specificity of the model in the ROC curve was 0.842 and 0.846, respectively (P<.001). Conclusions: The incidence of apnoea during admission was 4.4 per 100 admissions of AB and year. The estimated prediction model equation may be of help to the clinician in order to classify patients with increased risk of apnoea during admission due to AB. © 2017 Asociación Española de Pediatría	2018	Ramos-Fernández, J.M.;Moreno-Pérez, D.;Gutiérrez-Bedmar, M.;Ramírez-Álvarez, M.;Martínez García, Y.;Artacho-González, L.;Urda-Cardona, A.	Anales de Pediatria	10.1016/j.anpedi.2017.03.013
Psychiatric Illness In Women Requesting Caesarean Section	Objective To compare psychiatric in- and outpatient care during the 5 years before first delivery in primiparae delivered by caesarean section on maternal request with all other primiparae women who had given birth during the same time period. Design Prospective, population-based register study. Setting Sweden. Sample Women giving birth for the first time between 2002 and 2004 (n = 64 834). Methods Women giving birth by caesarean section on maternal request (n = 1009) were compared with all other women giving birth (n = 63 825). The exposure of interest was any psychiatric diagnosis according to the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ninth revision, ICD-9, 290-319; tenth revision, ICD-10, F00-F99) in The Swedish national patient register during the 5 years before first delivery. Main outcome measures Psychiatric diagnoses and delivery data. Results The burden of psychiatric illnesses was significantly higher in women giving birth by caesarean section on maternal request (10 versus 3.5%, P < 0.001). The most common diagnoses were 'Neurotic disorders, stress-related disorders and somatoform disorders' (5.9%, aOR 3.1, 95% CI 1.1-2.9), and 'Mood disorders' (3.4%, aOR 2.4, 95% CI 1.7-3.6). The adjusted odds ratio for caesarean section on maternal request was 2.5 (95% CI 2.0-3.2) for any psychiatric disorder. Women giving birth by caesarean section on maternal request were older, used tobacco more often, had a lower educational level, higher body mass index, were more often married, unemployed, and their parents were more often born outside of Scandinavia (P < 0.05). Conclusions Women giving birth by caesarean section on maternal request more often have a severe psychiatric disease burden. This finding points to the need for psychological support for these women as well as the need to screen and treat psychiatric illness in pregnant women. © 2014 The Authors. BJOG An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.	2015	Sydsjö, G.;Möller, L.;Lilliecreutz, C.;Bladh, M.;Andolf, E.;Josefsson, A.	BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology	10.1111/1471-0528.12714
Pregnancy, Parturition, Parity And Position In The Family. Any Influence On The Development Of Paediatric Inguinal Hernia/Hydrocele?	Aim: To see if pre-partum factors have a relationship to the development of inguinal hernia in children. Method: A prospective study on children with hernia. On first contact, the affected child was examined and data like the age, sex, weight, blood group, the diagnosis, side of the lesion and other co-morbid conditions was recorded. The mother filled a questionnaire about her age, parity, illness during pregnancy, her mode of delivery and the patient's position in the family. Results: There were 104 patients from 103 mothers, their ages ranged from 13days to 14 years with the highest incidence in the 1-4 age group. The sex ratio was overwhelmingly male (M: F ratio was 38: 1). Right sided hernias were predominant. Only 7% had a family history. The peak age group of the mothers was 26-32 years and about 33% of the mothers had some illness during pregnancy. The birth positions of the patients showed that majority of them were either 1st or 2nd born children. Conclusion: Women of ages 26-32 likely to have children with inguinal hernia. Malarial illness during pregnancy may have a role to play. 1st and 2nd born male children have a higher chance of having inguinal hernia. © 2015, Surgical Society of Northern Greece. All rights reserved.	2015	Irabor, D.O.;Ogundoyin, O.O.;Ogunlana, D.I.	Surgical Chronicles	
Assessment Of Prevalence Of Hypertension In Pregnant Women With Its Complications: A Cross Sectional Study	Introduction: World Health Organization has reported that pregnancy induced hypertension is one of the main causes for mortality and morbidity in maternal and fetal deaths. About 60% of deaths accounted of eclampsia. Aims and Objectives: To diagnose for hypertension in pregnant women. To evaluate the knowledge of pregnancy induced hypertension among the pregnant women. To investigate the complications reported in Pregnancy induced hypertension (PIH) women, during and after labor. Study area and period: The present study was conducted in Chittoor government hospital, Chittoor, during the period of Jan 2016 and Dec 2017. The information and materials required for the study have been collected from the gynecology and obstetrics departments of the respective hospital. Result(s): During the study period of Jan 2016 and Dec 2017, about 2234 number of pregnant women have visited the obstetrics and gynecology department. All the 2234 pregnant women were tested for blood pressure. Among which 198 women were found to have hypertension, which may be of early onset PIH or chronic hypertension (HTN). Different variables of the study population like period of gestation [<20 weeks, >=20 weeks], previous cesarean section if present, previous preterm delivery if present, hypertension in previous pregnancy, history of paternal hypertension, history of abortions if have been, history of any still births, family history of PIH have been noted and reported in table 2. More than 8% of women were found to been falling in <20 weeks of gestational age (GA). Conclusion(s): The study included 2234 pregnant women, in which 198 women were diagnosed with hypertension. Thus, prior investigation and identification hypertension in pregnant women helps in better management of PIH and to overcome the complications that are reported due to PIH during and after labor. Better knowledge and treatment is required for managing hypertension in maternal women in gynecology and obstetrics department for maternal and fetal care.Copyright © RJPT All right reserved.	2021	Hemalatha, S.;Shaheedha, S.M.;Borra, R.	Research Journal of Pharmacy and Technology	10.52711/0974-360X.2021.00659
A Study To Find The Prevalence Of Breast Engorgement Among Lactating Mothers	Introduction: Breast engorgement problem was common in early days and also after weeks of breast feeding. This frequent problem can happen to lactating mother who don't or can't breast feed as well as those who do. It is usually caused by an imbalance between milk supply and infant demand, if engorgement left untreated it can lead to potentially serious issues including painful blebs, plugged milk ducts or mastitis. Aim(s): The study aimed to find out the prevalence of breast engorgement among lactating mothers with vaginal delivery, Lower segmental caesarean section. Material(s) and Method(s): A total of 90 women were selected from SaveethaHospital and Saveetha Rural Health Centre, based on the inclusion criteria Saveetha Hospital and Saveetha Rural Health Centre, based on the inclusion criteria of Lactating mothers with Breast Engorgement and pain for atleast 2-3days who underwent vaginal delivery or lower segmental caesarean section. Exclusion criteria were lactating mothers with soft breast and non lactating mothers and other breast problems. After getting the consent from mothers and after explaining the Six Point Self-rated Engorgement Scale(SPES) and Visual Analogue Scale(VAS). They were asked to rate their level of engorgement and pain .The materials used were VAS and SPES. Result(s): The study showed that the prevalence of breast engorgement among lactating mothers was 65%-75%. Conclusion(s): The study concluded that the prevalence of breast engorgement among lactating mothers was 65%-75%.Breast engorgement is a major issue in the lactating mothers can leads to many problems like blocked milk ducts, feeding difficulties, a depressed milk ejection reflex, infection, inflammation of the breast and sore/cracked nipples.Copyright © 2020, Indian Journal of Public Health Research and Development. All rights reserved.	2020	Indrani, D.;Sowmya, M.V.	Indian Journal of Public Health Research and Development	10.37506/v11/i2/2020/ijphrd/194845
Inpatient And Outpatient Fecal Microbiota Transplant In Pediatric Patients With Clostridium Difficile Infections	Objectives: Fecal microbiota transplant (FMT) has shown a 90% success rate of symptom resolution in adults and pediatric Clostridium difficile infection (CDI). The major aims of this study were to compare the success of inpatient and outpatient FMTs in eradicating CDI and to identify risk factors for failure. Method(s): An eight-year retrospective chart review of pediatric FMT to treat CDI in the outpatient or inpatient setting was conducted. Patient demographics and FMT data were extracted. Result(s): The inpatient (n=19) FMT success rate was significantly higher than the outpatient (n=15) FMT success rate (P=0.018). Significant risk factors for failure were use of a gastrostomy tube versus nasogastric tube as the stool delivery mode (P = 0.034) and having FMT in the outpatient setting (P = 0.027). Conclusion(s): Inpatient FMT success rate was similar to FMT publications. Most published risk factors for CDI occurrence were not significantly related to CDI recurrence following FMT.Copyright © 2020, Shugar Publishing Inc.. All rights reserved.	2020	Zeky, N.;Gonzalez, S.;McMahon, P.;Vance, K.;McDonough, E.	Practical Gastroenterology	
The Incidence Of Neonatal Developmental Dysplasia Of The Hip In Arar, Saudi Arabia	Aim: In this study, it was aimedto investigate the incidence and risk factors of neonatal hip joint Developmental Dysplasia in Arar City. Material(s) and Method(s): Hospital records of all newborns in both Arar Central Hospital and Prince Abdulaziz bin Musaad Hospital in Arar city from January 2013 to the end of December 2013 were reviewed with their follow-up files till December 2015. Records include a detailed history, careful physical examination, results of the laboratory and radiological investigations. Result(s): The records of 2582 newborns were reviewed. The incidence of DDH was estimated to be 6.19/1000 live births. Ten cases (62.5 %) were females with estimated male to female ratio equal to 1:2.6. Spontaneous vaginal delivery occurred in 11 cases (68.75%), a caesarean section in 5 cases (31.25%). Limping and waddling gait was the most common finding in 10 cases (62.5%). DDH was significantly associated with primiparity, low birth weight, prematurity and positive family history of DDH (p-values=0.0009, 0.014, 0.038, and 0.0006 respectively). Discussion(s): Screening of DDH in Arar City of Northern Border province of Saudi Arabia was estimated to be 6.19/ 1000 live births. Awareness programs, routine examination of the neonatal hip joint with the hip ultrasound and pelvis plain x-ray in babies with risk factors for DDH are strongly recommended.Copyright © 2019, Derman Medical Publishing. All rights reserved.	2019	Alrowaili, M.G.;Alrowali, H.B.H.;Alrowaly, S.H.R.	Annals of Clinical and Analytical Medicine	10.4328/ACAM.20019
Impact Of Help-Seeking Behavior And Partner Support On Postpartum Depression Among Saudi Women	Background: Many studies have discovered a number of factors that can contribute to the risk of developing postpartum depression (PPD), including, but not limited to, life stressors, lack of social support, low economic status, and quality of the marital relationship. However, these studies were conducted in various countries with participants from different cultural backgrounds. Purpose(s): This study aimed to examine the impact of general help-seeking behavior (GHSB) and partner support (PS) on PPD among Saudi women in primary health care clinics in Riyadh city. Method(s): Data were collected by using self-administered measures of the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS), General Help-Seeking Questionnaire (GHSQ), and Partner Support Scale (PSS). Frequency distribution was used to analyze the categorical data, and Student's t-test and one-way analysis of variance were employed to compare the numerical data. Linear regression analysis was used to control for all confounders. Result(s): The findings showed that 9% and 28% of women had good and poor GHSB, respectively, 16% had poor PS, and 25.7% could be classified as probably depressed. Negative relationships between GHSB versus PPD and PS versus PPD were observed. Adjusting by mode of delivery and controlling for confounders in linear regression showed that women who underwent normal vaginal delivery, with higher para rates (beta=0.250, t=2.063) and lower PS scores (beta=-0.238, t=-2.038), were more likely to suffer higher depression scores (adj P=0.043 and adj P=0.045, respectively). Women who underwent cesarean-section, with postpartum duration >=6 weeks (beta=0.374, t=2.082), were more likely to suffer higher depression scores (adj P=0.045) compared to those with <6 weeks of postpartum duration. Conclusion(s): The prevalence of PPD among the study participants was high, especially among higher para women who underwent normal delivery and women >=6 weeks post cesarean-section, in comparison with the results in other studies. PPD is reduced by enhancing women's GHSB and PS.Copyright © 2017 Almutairi et al.	2017	Almutairi, A.F.;Salam, M.;Alanazi, S.;Alweldawi, M.;Alsomali, N.;Alotaibi, N.	Neuropsychiatric Disease and Treatment	10.2147/NDT.S135680
Factors Affecting Postpartum Depression Among Women Of The Uae And Oman	Objective: Is to evaluate factors related to the development of postpartum depression among an United Arab Emirates and Omani societies. Method(s): The study was prospective, observational, and descriptive using a self-reporting questionnaire. Arab women in the UAE who had recently delivered within two months were eligible for inclusion in the study whether they had a vaginal or caesarean delivery. Result(s): The study included forty Emirati and Omani participants with Omani women being the majority (65 %). Around 55 % of the participants confessed low motherhood satisfaction, twenty-five (62 %) residing in a city and had the baby in a local hospital, twenty-one (52.5 %) of the newborns were boys. Many factors associated with an increased likelihood of PPD have been established in this study such as diet, exercise, colicky baby, financial constrains and many other factors which all show some association with PPD, Fifteen (37.5 %) of the questioned women preferred artificial sweeteners during pregnancy, ten of them had a cesarean delivery. Statistical analysis revealed that twenty-five (62.5 %) had a cesarean delivery, twenty-two of them complained of postpartum anxiety (p-value = 0.009, significant difference is present between anxious women who had vaginal childbirth and cesarean delivery). Conclusion(s): PPD is a serious condition which merits thorough investigation and better understanding among families, friends, patients and healthcare providers. It is recommended that health authorities and institutions to arrange for public campaigns about this silent disease.Copyright © 2015, International Journal of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Science. All right resurved.	2015	Alomar, M.J.	International Journal of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences	
Mode Of Delivery Does Not Effect C - Reactive Protein And Ferritin Levels	Objective: C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker of systemic inflammation, increases rapidly in ischemia or traumatic injury. Ferritin, an acute phase reactant, has been found to be elevated in many chronic inflammation-related diseases. The aim of the present prospective study was to investigate and compare serum CRP and ferritin levels after vaginal birth and cesarean section. Method(s): One hundred sixty pregnant women who gave birth in our hospital were included in the study. Vaginal birth (n=80) and cesarean section (n=80) groups were matched for age and gestational age. In all subjects, CRP and plasma levels of ferritin were determined. Result(s): Maternal age, gestational age and body mass index were not significantly different between the groups. Ferritin levels were similar in vaginal birth and cesarean section subjects. There were also no significant differences in serum concentrations of CRP between the two groups. Serum CRP was 5.8 +/- 3.7mg/L in vaginal birth group and 7.0 +/- 6.8mg/L in cesarean section group (p=0.190). Conclusion(s): In conclusion, our findings reveal that mode of delivery has no effect on the acute-phase proteins namely, ferritin and CRP.	2014	Erkaya, S.;Engin-Ustun, Y.;Aktulay, A.	Acta Medica Mediterranea	
Timing Of Cord Clamping: An Observational Study Of Cord Clamping Practice In A Maternity Hospital In Aotearoa New Zealand	Background: When the umbilical cord is left unclamped after birth, a significant proportion of the blood from the placenta flows into the newborn, increasing the baby's blood volume by approximately 30%. Routine intervention of immediate cord clamping is harmful as it deprives the newborn access to their own blood, resulting in impaired physiological transition at birth and lower iron stores in early infancy. Iron deficiency in early life, even without anaemia, is linked with impaired neurodevelopment. Aim: The aim of this study was to accurately record birth to cord clamping interval at term vaginal births in a tertiary hospital in Aotearoa New Zealand and concurrently to examine some of the circumstances that may influence the timing of when the cord is cut. Method: This observational study was undertaken from August 2017 to April 2018. Participants were pregnant women having a vaginal birth at ≥37 weeks gestation. Data collected included birth to cord clamping interval, mode of birth (spontaneous or instrumental), maternal position for birth and practitioners involved in the birth. Descriptive statistics were used to summarise the data. Results: Participants were 55 women with term vaginal births. The median interval between birth and cord clamping was 3.5 minutes (IQR 2.18-5.68 mins). There was a longer median cord clamping time in the group who had a spontaneous birth (median 3.71; IQR 2.67-6.23) vs instrumental birth (2.08; IQR 0.55-2.30); with maternal side-lying position (6.37; IQR 4.15-9.48) vs lithotomy position (2.24; IQR 1.87-3.50); with midwife-facilitated birth (4.06; IQR 2.68-6.65) vs obstetricfacilitated birth (2.13; IQR 1.48-3.28); and when the neonatal team was not called to attend (4.73; IQR3.32-8.26) vs when they were called to attend (2.13; IQR 1.28-3.27). Discussion: The median cord clamping time of 3.5 minutes aligns with current local, national and international guidelines, although clamping times as short as 0.23 minutes were observed. The study provides a snapshot of practice at one tertiary hospital, examining data on a range of vaginal births, from uncomplicated midwifery-led births to complicated obstetric-led births requiring neonatal team attendance. By identifying some of the circumstances where cords are clamped early, we may be able to modify the associated factors for these births, thereby improving newborn health outcomes in the future. © 2022, New Zealand College of Midwives. All rights reserved.	2022	Hewitt, T.;Baddock, S.;Patterson, J.	New Zealand College of Midwives Journal	10.12784/nzcomjnl58.2022.3.19-26
A Survey Of Women’S Birth Experiences Using The Birth Satisfaction Scale–Revised Indicator (Bss-Ri)	Background and Aims: Birth satisfaction is the key indicator for maternal and perinatal services. Analysis of birth experience is important to improve maternity care. The objective of this article is to assess the birth experience of the women delivering at Saveetha Medical College and Hospital and to compare the satisfaction scores in different modes of delivery and the satisfaction scores amongst women based on their parity. Materials and Methods: Prospective cross-sectional observational study was conducted after ethical clearance and informed consent, among 100 women going through delivery at Saveetha Medical College, Obstetrics and Gynaecology department. The women were assessed by interview method with the Birth Satisfaction Scale-Revised Indicator and made to score from 0-2. The demographic details of the patient and the type of delivery along with their parity were also included. The results were analysed statistically based on which the care given during intrapartum period can be improved. Results: Amongst the 100 women who participated in the study, 31 were primiparas and 57% of the women underwent normal vaginal delivery. The average score in women undergoing normal delivery was 5.15, with Caesarean section having an average score of 4.62. Multiparous women had an average score of 5.24 compared to primiparous women, who had an average score of 4.22. Interpretation and Conclusion: The satisfaction scores of women who underwent normal vaginal delivery was better than those who underwent Caesarean sections. Also, primiparas experienced more distress during labour compared to multiparas. © 2021 Innovative Publication, All rights reserved.	2021	Madhumithaa, N.;Kirubamani, N.H.	Indian Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology Research	10.18231/j.ijogr.2021.007
Clinical Presentations And Patterns Of Neuro-Developmental Disorders In A Health Facility In Ghana: Implications For The Health And Educational Sectors	Background: Neurodevelopmental disorders (NDD) are a heterogeneous group of disorders with life-long implications for cognition, behaviour, emotions, academic performance, social well-being, and future career. Early identification and interventions yield a better outcome. Yet, there is a gap in knowledge about the range of NDD that exists in Ghana among laypersons, health, and education professionals. Objective: This study examined the clinical presentations and patterns of NDD in a clinical psychological clinic of a quasi-governmental hospital in Ghana. Methods: Using a retrospective chart review design, secondary data were extracted from eligible psychological reports of children managed at the clinic from January 2012 to December 2018. Results: Most children (62.96%, n = 85/135) were aged 6-13 yr. at the time of establishing a diagnosis. They had been referred from private schools (49.62%, n = 67/135) because they were doing poorly academically (38.51%, n = 52/135) or exhibited some behavioural problems (22.22%, n = 30/135). Most of them had been born at term by spontaneous delivery (58.51%, n= 79/135) but went through traumatic delivery and suffered perinatal complications (32.6%). There was a significant association between birth asphyxia and labour complications (p < 0.0001), gestational age (p < 0.008), mode of delivery (p < 0.016), and cerebral palsy (p < 0.018). Almost forty per cent had comorbid neurodevelopmental disorders. Conclusion: Findings from this study have implications in the prevention and early identification of NDDs. Parental education must be intensified during antenatal care and childhood educators must be trained to identify NDDs to enable early referral for diagnosis and intervention.. © 2020 University of Ghana College of Health Sciences on behalf of HSI Journal. All rights reserved.	2020	Dickson, E.D.;Osafo, J.;Asampong, E.;Kretchy, I.A.	Health Sciences Investigations Journal	10.46829/hsijournal.2020.12.1.2.114-120
Efficacy Of 3D Ultrasound On Diagnosis Of Women Pelvic Flour Dysfunction	Pelvic flour dysfunction (PFD) is one common disease in females and severely affects health and life quality. 3D ultrasound is applied due to its high accuracy and consistency, and can better reveal anatomical structure and functional alternation of body tissues and organs. This study thus investigated the morphological feature of female PFD patients using 3D ultrasound with its clinical significance. A total of 40 PFD patients admitted were enrolled in this study, in parallel with 20 cases with benign diseases as the control group. 3D ultrasound examination revealed sonogram of all patients to check the prolapse of pelvic organs. In specific, the size and area of pelvic diaphragm, and thickness of puborectalis were observed. Control patients had symmetric bilateral puborectalis, rhombic diaphragm with complete structure. PFD patients, including both natural labor and caesarean birth, had organ prolapse to different extents, as shown by higher downward of bladder neck, rotation angle of urinary tract, gall bladder bulge, incidence and distance of uterus or rectal prolapse compared to control ones (P<0.05). The diameter and area of diaphragm were higher than control group during all phases, while thickness of musculi levator ani was lower than control group (P<0.05). Those indexes were better in natural delivery over caesarean birth (P<0.05). 3D ultrasound to observe female PFD can better illustrated structure morphology, as it can measure the diameter and size of pelvic diaphragm, all of those provide evidence of PFD diagnosis. © 2016, E-Century Publishing Corporation. All rights reserved.	2016	Chen, A.;Zhang, Y.;Lv, C.;Zhang, J.;Liu, H.	International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Medicine	
A Comparison Of The Birth Characteristics Of Idiopathic Toe Walking And Toe Walking Gait Due To Medical Reasons	OBJECTIVE: To determine and compare the birth history or postnatal complications of idiopathic toe walking (ITW) and toe walking known to be associated with a medical condition.;STUDY DESIGN: This was a retrospective chart review of parent-reported birth histories of children who presented to a dedicated toe-walking clinic between 2010 and 2014. This cohort comprised children diagnosed with ITW and children with a medical reason for their toe-walking gait. Data were compared with Australian Perinatal statistical normative data.;RESULTS: Ninety-five children (60 males, 63%) were diagnosed with ITW, with a mean (SD) age of 5.8 (2.9) years. Children with an ITW gait were found to have greater rates of prematurity (OR 2.4; 95% CI 1.43-4.03), greater rates of admission to a special care nursery or neonatal intensive care unit (OR 1.98; 95% CI 1.23-3.18), and lower birth weights (OR 6.6; 95% CI 3.48-12.5) than the normative population. Children with a medical reason for toe walking (n = 28, 68% males) also had greater rates of prematurity (OR 2.4; 95% CI 0.94-6.09) than the normative population and more instrumented births than the ITW cohort (OR 1.56; 95% CI 0.64-3.77). No association was found between assisted-birth intervention and the ITW cohort compared with the normative population or group with a medical cause for toe walking.;CONCLUSIONS: ITW gait was associated with greater rates of complications during and after delivery. Such complications have been associated previously as risk factors for neurologic insult affecting motor development. Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2016	Baber, S;Michalitsis, J;Fahey, M;Rawicki, B;Haines, T;Williams, C	Journal of Pediatrics	10.1016/j.jpeds.2015.12.069
Maternal Satisfaction During Vaginal And Cesarean Births And The Affecting Factors: A Cross-Sectional Study	Background: Maternal satisfaction during birth is a multidimensional concept which is complex, is affected by many factors and is difficult to evaluate objectively. Aim: This study was to determine maternal satisfaction during vaginal and cesarean deliveries and the affecting factors. Methodology: This is a descriptive and cross-sectional study. The study was carried out with the participation of 200 postpartum women between January 10, 2018 - March 10, 2018. The data collection tools were the Descriptive Information Form, The Scale for Measuring Maternal Satisfaction-normal birth, and The Scale for Measuring Maternal Satisfaction-cesarean birth. The data were evaluated using the SPSS 20.0 package program, and descriptive statistics were evaluated by the Mann-Whitney U Test, Kruskal-Wallis Test, and chi-square test. The statistical significance was considered as p<0.05. Results: No significant difference was found between those with vaginal delivery and those with cesarean birth in terms of the mean satisfaction scores according to age, education, employment status, economic situation, total number of pregnancies, number of live births, and number of living children (p>0.05). No significant relationship was found between the scores obtained by women with vaginal birth and cesarean birth from the birth satisfaction scale and planned pregnancy, husband's request for pregnancy, participation in prenatal education class, reading a source about birth such as books and magazines, prenatal knowledge of the infant's gender, and the number of controls during pregnancy (p>0.05). Conclusions: In this study, maternal satisfaction during birth was found to be low regardless of the birth method.	2020	Yilmaz, Tulay;Dinc, Husniye;Gunaydin, Sevil;Celik, Esra	International Journal of Caring Sciences	
Airway Clearance Of The Term Newborn	Purpose: This descriptive, observational study explored the practice of airway clearance of the term newborn at birth. The American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Heart Association, and the European Resuscitation Council have established guidelines for suctioning the well newborn. Study Design and Methods: Airway clearance practices of nurses, obstetricians, and respiratory therapists at 10 cesarean births and 10 vaginal births were observed. Data were analyzed using descriptive statistics and through content analysis of narratives. Results: All newborns observed experienced at least one airway clearance event and multiple airway clearance passes. Indications for suctioning were not consistent with professional guidelines. Airway clearance procedures and practices were inconsistent. Two suction devices used: the blue bulb syringe and orogastric catheter. If a newborn was suctioned three times, the orogastric catheter was the predominate device used. Clinical Implications: There was a lack of adherence to established clinical guidelines for newborn airway clearance. Further study is needed to identify education of airway clearance guidelines. Specific protocols such as safe suctioning methods, correct device use, and observation of complications associated with airway management need to be developed to support a newborn's healthy transition at birth. At birth, simple drying of the newborn, wiping away excess fluids from the newborn's mouth and nose, proper positioning of the airway and provision of a warm environment of a term newborn with spontaneous respirations, adequate crying, and good muscle tone are recommended practices. In this study, 40% of healthy newborns were suctioned at birth, although there were no indications. Why is it difficult to consistently apply practice guidelines in the clinical setting? The authors offer some insight on this common conundrum.	2018	Adams, Ellise, D.;O'Neal, Pamela, V.;Hanson, Linda, A.;Norris, Casey;Ayers, Angela;Harbin, Brandi	MCN: The American Journal of Maternal Child Nursing	10.1097/NMC.0000000000000473
Women'S Pelvic Floor Muscle Strength And Urinary And Anal Incontinence After Childbirth: A Cross-Sectional Study	Objetivo: Analisar a força dos músculos do assoalho pélvico e a incontinência urinária e anal no período pós-parto. Método: Estudo transversal realizado com mulheres nos primeiros 7 meses após o parto. Os dados foram coletados por meio de entrevista, da perineometria (Peritron™) e do International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-SF). Resultados: Participaram do estudo 128 mulheres. A média da força dos músculos do assoalho pélvico foi 33,1 (d.p.=16,0) cmH2O e a prevalência de incontinência urinária e incontinência anal foi de 7,8% e 5,5%, respectivamente. Na análise múltipla, as variáveis associadas à força dos músculos do assoalho pélvico foram tipo de parto atual e coabitação com o parceiro. Peso do recém-nascido, gestação anterior, incontinência urinária na gestação e atividade sexual mostraram associação. Apenas a incontinência anal prévia à gestação associou-se à incontinência anal após o parto. Conclusão: O parto vaginal predispõe à redução da força dos músculos do assoalho pélvico, e a cesariana exerce função protetora à sua redução. A ocorrência de incontinência urinária na gestação é preditora da incontinência urinária após o parto, e as mulheres com gestação anterior e recém-nascido de maior peso têm maior propensão em apresentar incontinência urinária após o parto. Incontinência anal prévia à gestação é o único fator de risco para sua ocorrência após o parto. As associações entre força dos músculos do assoalho pélvico e coabitação com o parceiro e entre incontinência urinária e atividade sexual não permitem concluir que essas variáveis estejam diretamente relacionadas.	2017	Priscila Tavares, Zizzi;Karina Fernandes, Trevisan;Leister, Nathalie;Camila da Silva, Cruz;Maria Luiza Gonzalez, Riesco	Revista da Escola de Enfermagem da USP	10.1590/S1980-220X2015039203214
'Keep Me With My Mom': An Evidenced-Based Initiative To Keep Mother And Newborn Together Following Cesarean Birth	Objective To standardize practice to allow mother and newborn to recover together following cesarean birth. Design Evidence-based guidelines support postbirth recovery of term, stable, newborns skin-to-skin (STS), with mothers to promote mother--newborn synchrony. The Plan-Do-Study-Act (PDSA) Cycle was utilized to implement our practice change. Sample Preimplementation: 3 months (November 2012- January 2013) retrospective chart review of recovery care, with 42 term stable newborns born by cesarean birth; 14 newborns per month. Pilot: 1 month project (March 2013) to keep mother and newborn together for four selected cesarean births. Implementation: from April 2013 until present keep mother and newborn together for all cesarean births with ongoing monthly retrospective chart review of recovery care following cesarean birth (14 charts per month). Methods Retrospective chart review includes date and time of birth, feeding choice, time of breastfeeding initiation, and time of newborn admission to the nursery. Patient satisfaction questions/comments relevant to the project were obtained from the hospital's patient satisfaction survey. Implementation phase retrospective chart review collected data about documentation of initiation of STS. Implementation Strategies A list entitled Top Ten Reasons for Keeping Mother and Baby Together Post-Birth was posted prior to implementation to engage staff and prompt dialogue. Labor and delivery staff, designated as project champions, and the education specialist reorganized the cesarean birth recovery room to safely accommodate mother and newborn. Multidisciplinary in-service education was provided. A pilot project was conducted to identify any barriers. A workflow algorithm was created to highlight changes to staff responsibilities. Staff dialogue continues to share progress, address challenges and concerns, and offer support and information about keeping mothers and newborns together. Results The length of time mother and newborn stayed together following cesarean birth increased from 35 to 90-120 minutes. The length of time to initiation of breastfeeding decreased from 5 to 2 3/4 hours. Initiation of STS increased 7% to 57%. Patient satisfaction scores remain consistent at greater than 90%. Conclusion/Implications for Nursing Practice The PDSA cycle can be used to accomplish successful implementation of practice change. Standardized care following cesarean birth should include STS and early initiation of breastfeeding. Unexpected practice improvement may be realized.	2014	Roman, Michele;Carter, Claire, H.	JOGNN: Journal of Obstetric, Gynecologic & Neonatal Nursing	10.1111/1552-6909.12342
Obstetric Anal Sphincter Injury: Interpregnancy Interval And Route Of Subsequent Delivery	IMPORTANCE: Knowledge on the interpregnancy interval (IPI) among women with an obstetric anal sphincter injury (OASI) is both limited and not well understood.;OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to describe the IPI among women with OASI and to compare women with OASI based on the route of subsequent obstetric delivery and OASI recurrence.;STUDY DESIGN: This was a retrospective single-cohort study of women who had an OASI between 2013 and 2015 at a tertiary academic medical center. Demographics, obstetric delivery data, postpartum sequelae, and subsequent pregnancy delivery data from 2013 to 2021 were collected. The IPI was defined as the time from date of first vaginal delivery to date of conception of the subsequent pregnancy. Women without a subsequent pregnancy were censored at the date of last contact. The IPI was evaluated using a survival analysis (Kaplan-Meier estimator).;RESULTS: A total of 287 women experienced an OASI, and subsequent pregnancy occurred for 178 (62.0%) women. The median IPI was 26.4 months (95% confidence interval: 23.7-29.9) for women with a prior OASI. Of the 97 women who did not have a subsequent pregnancy documented during the study, the median follow-up was 64.0 months (interquartile range: 5.7-80.0). Subsequent delivery route data were available for 171 women; of those, 127 (74.3%) experienced a subsequent vaginal delivery and 44 (25.7%) experienced a cesarean delivery. Of the 127 women who experienced a subsequent vaginal delivery, 3 (2.4%) experienced a recurrent OASI.;CONCLUSION: The IPI among women with OASI is similar to the IPI for all women in Ohio and in the United States. Copyright © 2024 American Urogynecologic Society. All rights reserved.	2024	Nutaitis, AC;Yao, M;Hickman, LC;Kollikonda, S;Propst, KA	Urogynecology (Hagerstown, Md.)	10.1097/SPV.0000000000001551
The Novel Parallel Closure Technique Compared To Single-Layer Closure Of The Uterus After Primary Cesarean Section Decreases The Incidence Of Isthmocele Formation And Increases Residual Myometrial Thickness	Background Isthmocele or a scar defect is a relatively common consequence of cesarean section resulting in menstrual disturbances and infertility and may compromise the myometrial integrity of the uterus in women contemplating subsequent vaginal birth. Several preventive measures have been suggested, including the modification of surgical techniques used for the closure of the uterine incision. The current study aimed to compare the incidence of isthmocele and assess residual myometrial thickness in women who underwent single versus parallel layered closure to approximate the endo-myometrial layer during cesarean section. Methodology This retrospective study evaluated data of women undergoing their first cesarean section under elective conditions (n = 497) where the uterine incision was closed using a single (n = 295) or a parallel layer (n = 202) technique. Patients were evaluated twice, at 3-6 months and 18 months postpartum, with a transvaginal ultrasound noting the presence or absence of an isthmocele and measurement of the residual myometrial thickness. Results Regardless of the closure technique, 64 (12.9%) women had an ultrasound-diagnosed isthmocele. Significantly fewer patients in the parallel-layer closure group presented with an isthmocele both at 3-6 (13.6 vs. 6.9%; p = 0.019) and 18 months (16.3 vs. 7.8%; p = 0.009) postpartum. Residual myometrium was significantly thicker in the parallel-layer closure group (8.0 vs. 13.2 mm at 3-6 months postpartum; p = 0.000 and 7.2 vs. 12.3 mm at 18 months postpartum; p = 0.004). For all patients, a retroverted position of the uterus at 3-6 months follow-up examination significantly increased the frequency of isthmocele (36/395 (9.1%) with an anteverted uterus and 18/102 (17.6%) with a retroverted uterus; p = 0.002). In patients with a single-layer closure, a retroverted uterus at the 3-6-month follow-up was associated with an isthmocele in 29.5% (18/61) of patients, while no isthmocele was recorded when the uterus was retroverted in the parallel-layer closure group (0/41) (p = 0.001). At 18 months postpartum, of the 64 patients with an isthmocele, 26 (40.6%) presented with abnormal uterine bleeding mainly in the form of postmenstrual spotting. Of the 26 patients with abnormal bleeding, 23 were in the single-layer and three were in the parallel-layer closure group. Conclusions The parallel-layer closure when compared to a single-layer closure of the uterine incision in patients undergoing primary cesarean section decreased the incidence of isthmocele formation and increased residual myometrial thickness. More patients in the single-layer closure group had menstrual cycle disturbances at 18 months postpartum. Copyright © 2024, Alper et al.	2024	Alper, E;Aksakal, E;Usta, I;Urman, B	Cureus	10.7759/cureus.60932
Impact Of Different Obstetric Interventions And Types Of Delivery On Breastfeeding: A Nationwide Cross-Sectional Survey Of Hungarian Women	BACKGROUND: We assessed the effect of different obstetric interventions and types of delivery on breastfeeding.;METHODS: A quantitative, cross-sectional study was carried out using an online questionnaire. Data collection was performed in 2021 in Hungary. We included biological mothers who had raised their at least 5-year-old child(ren) at home (N = 2,008). The questionnaire was completed anonymously and voluntarily. In addition to sociodemographic data (age, residence, marital status, education, occupation, income status, number of biological children, and anthropometric questions about the child and the mother), we asked about the interventions used during childbirth, and the different ways of infant feeding used. Statistical analysis was carried out using Microsoft Excel 365 and SPSS 25.0. Descriptive statistics, two-sample t tests, chi2 tests and ANOVA were used to analyse the relationship or differences between the variables (p < 0,05).;RESULTS: We found that in deliveries where synthetic oxytocin was used for both induction and acceleration, there was a higher incidence of emergency cesarean section. However, the occurrence of vaginal deliveries was significantly higher in cases where oxytocin administration was solely for the purpose of accelerating labour (p < 0.001). Mothers who received synthetic oxytocin also received analgesics (p < 0.001). Women giving birth naturally who used oxytocin had a lower success of breastfeeding their newborn in the delivery room (p < 0.001). Children of mothers who received obstetric analgesia had a higher rate of complementary formula feeding (p < 0.001). Newborns born naturally had a higher rate of breastfeeding in the delivery room (p < 0.001) and less formula feeding in the hospital (p < 0.001). Infants who were breastfed in the delivery room were breastfed for longer periods (p < 0.001). Exclusive breastfeeding up to six months was longer for infants born naturally (p = 0.005), but there was no difference in the length of breastfeeding (p = 0.081).;CONCLUSIONS: Obstetric interventions may increase the need for further interventions and have a negative impact on early or successful breastfeeding.;TRIAL REGISTRATION: Not relevant. Copyright © 2024. The Author(s).	2024	Hulman, A;Pakai, A;Csakvari, T;Varga, K	BMC Pregnancy & Childbirth	10.1186/s12884-024-06666-x
Neonatal Screening Of Abo/Rhd Blood Group And Direct Antiglobulin Coombs Test. Experience Of A Single Institution	BACKGROUND: Evaluating the ABO/RhD blood group and the direct antiglobulin Coombs test (DAT) at birth is recommended good practice, but there is variability in its universal implementation. This study aims to show the comparative results in various variables of clinical impact during the hospital stay of neonates with positive DAT compared with those with negative DAT, based on the systematic detection of the ABO/RhD group and DAT at birth.;METHODS: Newborns between 2017 and 2020 in a high-risk pregnancy care hospital were included. The ABO/RhD and DAT group was determined in umbilical cord samples or the first 24 hours of life. Demographic, maternal, and neonatal variables were recorded. The association between the variables was estimated using the odds ratio (OR).;RESULTS: 8721 pairs were included. The DAT was positive in 239 newborns (2.7%), with the variables associated with positive PDC being maternal age > 40 years (OR: 1.5; 95% CI: 1.0 to 2.3), birth by cesarean section (1.4; 1.1-2.0), mother group O (6.4; 3.8-11.8), prematurity (3.6; 2.6-5.0), birth weight < 2500 g (2.1; 1.6-2.8), newborn group A (15.7; 10.7-23.1) and group B (17.6; 11.4-27.2), hemoglobin at birth < 13.5 g/dl (4.5; 2.8-7.1) and reticulocytosis > 9% (1.9; 1.2 to 3.1).;DISCUSSION: The frequency of neonatal positive PDC was 2.7%, with a significant association with maternal/neonatal incompatibility to the ABO and RhD group, with a substantial impact on various neonatal variables. These results support the policy of universal implementation at the birth of the ABO/RhD and DAT determination. Copyright: © 2024 Permanyer.	2024	Baptista-Gonzalez, HA;Rodriguez-Alvarado, AG;Bouchan-Valencia, P;Coeto-Barona, G;Coronado-Zarco, IA	Boletin Medico del Hospital Infantil de Mexico	10.24875/BMHIM.24000032
Unplanned Hysterectomy: A Comprehensive Analysis Of Race, Ethnicity, Sociodemographic Factors, Pregnancy Complications, And Cardiovascular Disease Risk Factors	OBJECTIVE: To understand the risk of unplanned hysterectomy (UH) in pregnant women better in association with maternal sociodemographic characteristics, cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors, and current pregnancy complications.;DESIGN: Using Florida birth data from 2005 to 2014, we investigated the possible interactions between known risk factors of having UH, including maternal sociodemographic characteristics, maternal medical history, and other pregnancy complications. Logistic regression models were constructed. Adjusted odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals were reported.;RESULTS: Several interactions were observed that significantly affected odds of UH. Compared to non-Hispanic White women, Hispanic minority women were more likely to have an UH. The overall risk of UH for women with preterm birth (<37 weeks) and concurrently had premature rupture of membranes (PRoM), uterine rupture, or a previous cesarean delivery was significantly higher than women who delivered to term and had no pregnancy complications. Women who delivered via cesarean who also had preeclampsia, PRoM, or uterine rupture had an overall increased risk of UH. Significantly decreased risk of UH was seen for Black women less than 20 years old, women of other minority races with either less than a high school degree or a college degree or greater, women of other minority races with PRoM, and women with preterm birth and diabetes compared to respective reference groups.;CONCLUSIONS: Maternal race, ethnicity, CVD risk factors, and current pregnancy complications affect the risk of UH in pregnant women through complex interactions that would not be seen in unadjusted models of risk analysis.	2024	Ibrahimou, B;Burchfield, S;Sun, N;Bursac, Z;Kondracki, AJ;Salihu, H;Zhu, Y;Dagne, G;De La Rosa, M;Melesse, A;Guilarte, T	Ethnicity & Health	10.1080/13557858.2023.2249273
Can We Predict Peritoneal Adhesions Formation After Cesarean Delivery?	OBJECTIVE: To examine demographic and obstetrical factors that are associated with adhesion formation following cesarean delivery.;METHODS: We conducted a population-based study that included all women over 18 years og age who underwent two cesarean deliveries between the years 1988 and 2016 in a large tertiary medical center. We excluded women with adhesions already diagnosed during the first cesarean delivery, history of other abdominal or pelvic surgery, history of pelvic infection or pelvic inflammatory disease, history of endometriosis and history of uterine Mullerian anomalies. In addition, women with a classical or T-shaped uterine incision, non-singleton pregnancies, and fetal chromosomal or structural abnormalities were excluded.;RESULTS: During the study period, 32.6% (n = 2283) of women were diagnosed with peritoneal adhesions during the second cesarean delivery. Factors found to be significantly associated with peritoneal adhesions were maternal age 35 years or older at the first cesarean delivery, Bedouin Arab ethnicity, composite of intrapartum and postpartum infectious morbidity, and cesarean deliveries that were performed after the onset of labor. In contrast, having a previous vaginal birth was found to be protective.;CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that a woman's characteristics at her first cesarean delivery and her obstetrical history may be predictive of the likelihood of adhesion formation. Copyright © 2023 The Authors. International Journal of Gynecology & Obstetrics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics.	2024	Saban, A;Shoham-Vardi, I;Stein, L;Eshkoli, T;Weintraub, AY	International Journal of Gynaecology & Obstetrics	10.1002/ijgo.15013
Uterine Smooth Muscle Tumors With Uncertain Malignant Potential: Analysis Following Fertility-Saving Procedures	OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to analyze the clinical and reproductive outcomes of patients treated with myomectomy who were histologically diagnosed with uterine smooth muscle tumor of uncertain malignant potential (STUMP).;METHODS: Patients who were diagnosed with STUMP and underwent a myomectomy at our institution between October 2003 and October 2019 were identified. Variables of interest obtained from the institution's database included patient age, relevant medical history, pre-operative appearance of the tumor on ultrasound, parameters of the surgical procedure, histopathological analysis of the tumor, post-operative clinical course, and course of follow-up, including reinterventions and fertility outcomes.;RESULTS: There were a total of 46 patients that fulfilled the criteria of STUMP. The median patient age was 36 years (range, 18-48 years) and the mean follow-up was 47.6 months (range, 7-149 months). Thirty-four patients underwent primary laparoscopic procedures. Power morcellation was used for specimen extraction in 19 cases (55.9% of laparoscopic procedures). Endobag retrieval was used in nine patients and six procedures were converted to an open approach due to the suspicious peri-operative appearance of the tumor. Five patients underwent elective laparotomy due to the size and/or number of tumors; three patients had vaginal myomectomy; two patients had the tumor removed during planned cesarean section; and two underwent hysteroscopic resection. There were 13 reinterventions (five myomectomies and eight hysterectomies) with benign histology in 11 cases and STUMP histology in two cases (4.3% of all patients). We did not observe any recurrence as leiomyosarcoma or other uterine malignancy. We did not observe any deaths related to the diagnosis. Twenty-two pregnancies were recorded among 17 women, which resulted in 18 uncomplicated deliveries (17 by cesarean section and one vaginal), two missed abortions, and two pregnancy terminations.;CONCLUSIONS: Our study found that uterus-saving procedures and fertility-preservation strategies in women with STUMP are feasible, safe, and seem to be associated with a low risk of malignant recurrence, even while maintaining the mini-invasive laparoscopic approach. Copyright © IGCS and ESGO 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. Published by BMJ.	2023	Richtarova, A;Boudova, B;Dundr, P;Lisa, Z;Hlinecka, K;Zizka, Z;Fruhauf, F;Kuzel, D;Slama, J;Mara, M	International Journal of Gynecological Cancer	10.1136/ijgc-2022-004038
Comparison Of Maternal And Neonatal Subspecialty Care Provision By Hospital	OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study is to determine the relationship between a hospital's provision of subspecialty neonatal and maternal care. Specifically, we sought to understand where women with high-risk maternal conditions received intrapartum care and estimate the potential transfer burden for those with maternal high-risk conditions delivering at hospitals without subspecialty maternal care.;STUDY DESIGN: This is a descriptive study using data from 2015 State Inpatient Databases and the American Hospital Association Annual Survey. Characteristics were compared between hospitals based on the concordance of their maternal and neonatal care. The incidences of high-risk maternal conditions (pre-eclampsia with severe features, placenta previa with prior cesarean delivery, cardiac disease, pulmonary edema, and acute liver failure) were compared. To determine the potential referral burden, the percent of women with high-risk conditions delivering at a hospital without subspecialty maternal care but delivering in a county with a hospital with subspecialty maternal care was calculated.;RESULTS: The analysis included 486,398 women who delivered at 544 hospitals, of which 104 (19%) and 182 (33%) had subspecialty maternal and neonatal care, respectively. Ninety-eight hospitals provided both subspecialty maternal and neonatal care; however, 84 hospitals provided only subspecialty neonatal care but no subspecialty maternal care. Among high-risk maternal conditions examined, approximately 65% of women delivered at a hospital with subspecialty maternal care. Of the remainder who delivered at a hospital without subspecialty maternal care, one-third were in a county where subspecialty care was present. For women with high-risk conditions who delivered in a county without subspecialty maternal care, the median distance to the closest county with subspecialty care was 52.8 miles (IQR: 34.3-87.7 miles).;CONCLUSION: Approximately 50% of hospitals with subspecialty neonatal care do not provide subspecialty maternal care. This discordance may present a challenge when both high-risk maternal and neonatal conditions are present.;KEY POINTS: . High-risk women who deliver at hospitals without subspecialty care are in more rural areas.. . Approximately 50% of hospitals with subspecialty neonatal care do not provide subspecialty maternal care.. . This discordance may present a challenge when both high-risk maternal and neonatal conditions are present.. Copyright Thieme. All rights reserved.	2023	Clapp, MA;Srinivas, SK;Kozhimannil, KB;Grobman, WA;Kaimal, AJ	American Journal of Perinatology	10.1055/s-0041-1727223
Measures Against Covid-19 Pandemic - A Single Tertiary Center Experience	This paper reports the measures taken to manage the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on O&G services in a tertiary referal centre and their outcomes. All the patients included in this study received inpatient treatment and underwent surgery between March 10 2020 and end of June 2020, including obstetric or gynaecologic cases combined. Data including age, diagnosis, operation, duration of preoperative and postoperative hospital stay, COVID-19 status were recorded. COVID-19 status of the patients was diagnosed with a nasopharyngeal swab test. Thirty-seven (20%) of 177 operations were performed because of gynaecologic reasons. The rest of them were caesarean sections (C/S). In gynaecologic cases, 22 (59%) of 37 were emergent operations, nine (24%) cases were oncologic and six (16%) cases were elective gynaecological surgeries. On the other hand, 43 (30%) of 140 patients, who underwent caesarean sections, were urgent surgeries. The rest were elective and planned caesarean sections. Only five patients (2.8%) who had undergone caesarean sections were tested positive for COVID-19. No COVID-19 transmission to staff was recorded in this period. Measures against the COVID-19 pandemic must be multidisciplinary and is crucial to prevent the spread of the disease to staff in close contact.Impact StatementWhat is already known on this subject? COVID-19 pandemic has been a crucial health problem worldwide. Healthcare workers work intensely to protect people from the pandemic. It is especially important to protect healthcare professionals and hospitalized patients from virus transmission. Therefore, utilization of personal protective equipment such as masks, gloves and goggles is obligatory, and hygiene rules such as sanitization of hands are strictly followed. What the results of this study add? This study adds the experience and success of a tertiary centre regarding the measure against COVID-19 to the literature. No viral transmission was detected to healthcare workers and other patients from COVID-19 patients. Hence, measures that mentioned in the present study should be an example to other centres for protection against pandemic. What the implications are of these findings for clinical practice and/or further research? As mentioned above, measures that are explained in the present study should be an example to other centres for protection against the pandemic. Further larger size clinical studies are needed to prove the beneficial effect of the measures that still used against pandemic.	2022	Ilgen, O;Saatli, B;Timur, T;Kula, H;Kandemir, S;Kurt, S;Cagliyan, E	Journal of Obstetrics & Gynaecology	10.1080/01443615.2021.2021506
Analysis Of Risk Factors Of Picc-Related Bloodstream Infection In Newborns: Implications For Nursing Care	BACKGROUND: It is necessary to analyze the characteristics and risk factors of catheter-related bloodstream infection (CRBSI) in newborns with peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC).;METHODS: Newborns undergoing PICC catheterization in the neonatal department of our hospital from January 1, 2020 to January 31, 2021 were included. The characteristics of newborns with and without CRBSI newborns were compared and analyzed. Logistic regression analyses were performed to evaluate the risk factors of CRBSI in newborns with PICC.;RESULTS: Three hundred eighty-six newborns with PICC were included, of whom 41 newborns had the CRBSI, the incidence of CRBSI in newborns with PICC was 10.62%. There were significant differences regarding the birth weight, durations of PICC stay, 5-min Apgar score, site of PICC insertion of PICC between CRBSI and no CRBSI group (all P < 0.05), and there were no significant differences regarding the gender, gestational age, cesarean section, mechanical ventilation and length of hospital stay between CRBSI and no CRBSI group (all P > 0.05). Escherichia coli (26.08%) and Staphylococcus aureus (23.92%) were the most common CRBSI pathogens in newborns with PICC. Logistic regression analysis indicated that birth weight <= 1500 g (OR 1.923, 95% CI 1.135-2.629), durations of PICC stay >= 21 days (OR 2.077, 95% CI 1.024-3.431), 5-min Apgar score <= 7 (OR 2.198, 95% CI 1.135-3.414) and femoral vein insertion of PICC (OR 3.044, 95% CI 1.989-4.306) were the independent risk factors of CRBSI in neonates with PICC (all P < 0.05).;CONCLUSION: For newborns with low birth weight, longer durations of PICC stay and femoral vein PICC insertion, they may have higher risks of CRBSI, and medical staff should take targeted measures to reduce the development of CRBSI. Copyright © 2021. The Author(s).	2021	Hu, Y;Ling, Y;Ye, Y;Zhang, L;Xia, X;Jiang, Q;Sun, F	European Journal of Medical Research	10.1186/s40001-021-00546-2
Pregnancy-Specific Adaptations In Leptin And Melanocortin Neuropeptides In Early Human Gestation	INTRODUCTION: Pregnancy is characterized by increased appetitive drive beginning early in gestation, yet the central mechanisms underlying this adaptation are poorly understood in humans. To elucidate central mechanisms underlying appetite regulation in early pregnancy, we examine plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leptin and Agouti-related peptide (AgRP) as well as CSF proopiomelanocortin (POMC) as surrogates for brain melanocortin activity.;METHODS: Plasma leptin, soluble leptin receptor, AgRP, and CSF leptin, POMC, and AgRP were collected from pregnant women before cerclage placement (16.6 +/- 1.1 weeks; N = 24), scheduled cesarean section (39.2 +/- 0.2 weeks; N = 24), and from nonpregnant controls (N = 24), matched for age and body mass index.;RESULTS: Plasma leptin was 1.5 times higher in pregnancy vs controls (P = 0.01), but CSF leptin did not differ. CSF/plasma leptin percentage was lower in early pregnancy vs controls (0.8 +/- 0.1 vs 1.7 +/- 0.2; P < 0.0001) and remained unchanged at term (0.9 +/- 0.1), supporting a decrease in leptin transport into CSF in pregnancy. Plasma AgRP, a peripheral biomarker of the orexigenic hypothalamic neuropeptide, was higher in early pregnancy vs controls (95.0 +/- 7.8 vs 67.5 +/- 5.3; P = 0.005). In early gestation, CSF AgRP did not differ from controls, but CSF POMC was 25% lower (P = 0.006). In contrast, at term, CSF AgRP was 42% higher vs controls (P = 0.0001), but CSF POMC no longer differed. Overall, the CSF AgRP/POMC ratio was 1.5-fold higher in early pregnancy vs controls, reflecting a decrease in melanocortin tone favoring appetitive drive.;CONCLUSIONS: Pregnancy-specific adaptions in the central regulation of energy balance occur early in human gestation and are consistent with decreased leptin transport into brain and resistance to the effects of leptin on target melanocortin neuropeptides. Copyright © The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.	2021	Andrikopoulou, M;Panigrahi, SK;Jaconia, GD;Gyamfi-Bannerman, C;Smiley, RM;Page-Wilson, G	Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism	10.1210/clinem/dgab510
Cesarean Effects On Adolescents' Birth Experiences: Counterfactual Analysis	INTRODUCTION: The birth experience of adolescents is understudied even though they are a particularly vulnerable population to experience a negative birth event, given that they exhibit many known risk factors.;OBJECTIVE: To ascertain whether a cesarean birth mediates the impact of infant complications on the birth experience of adolescent mothers.;METHODS: Using a secondary analysis of data collected from 303 postpartum adolescents previously evaluated for depression and post-traumatic stress, we employed counterfactual causal analysis to determine if delivery type mediated the birth experience at different levels of depression. Noted limitations pertain to methodological assumptions and computational feasibility as well as potential sample bias.;RESULTS: We found that the mediating effect of delivery mode depended on the adolescent's depression level as well as on the specific operationalization of the birth experience. At low levels of depression, the odds of a negative birth appraisal were reduced by around 30% when operationalized as a single item subjective rating. In contrast, at high levels of depression, the odds of a negative birth experience increased by 80% when operationalized as an Impact of Event Scale (IES) subconstruct.;CONCLUSION: Depression level plays a pivotal role in moderating how delivery mode mediates the birth experience. The direction of impact also depends on how the birth experience is operationalized.	2020	Connolly, JP;Anderson, C	Trends in Psychiatry & Psychotherapy	10.1590/2237-6089-2019-0102
Quality Of Life And The Prevalence Of Urinary Incontinence After Surgical Treatment For Gynecologic Cancer: A Questionnaire Survey	BACKGROUND: Although there have been a number of reports on urinary voiding symptoms associated with surgical interventions for gynecologic cancer and post-voiding symptoms, there have been few reports on urinary storage symptoms such as urinary incontinence (UI) and overactive bladder (OAB). The purpose of this study was to examine the rates and impact on quality of life (QOL) of urinary storage symptoms after gynecologic cancer surgery.;METHODS: A questionnaire survey, including Japanese-language versions of the International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-SF), Overactive Bladder Symptom Score (OABSS), and Incontinence Impact Questionnaire-7 (IIQ-7), was distributed to gynecologic cancer patients who underwent hysterectomy between 2008 and 2013.;RESULTS: Of the 145 patients analyzed, 49 (33.8%) had UI pre-surgery, and 76 (52.4%) had UI post-surgery, including 34 (35.4%) first-time UI patients, with a significant difference between pre- and post-surgery. Of the 49 subjects with UI pre-surgery, 43 (87.7%) had stress incontinence, while of the 76 patients with UI post-surgery, 44 (57.1%) had stress incontinence, and 24 (31.2%) had mixed incontinence. Seven (4.8%) subjects had OAB pre-surgery, whereas 19 (13.1%) had OAB symptoms post-surgery (including 15 first-time OAB patients), with a significant difference between pre- and post-surgery. IIQ-7 scores were markedly higher for patients with mixed incontinence post-surgery than for those with stress incontinence, indicating a lower QOL. Logistic regression analysis identified the number of Cesarean sections and days of urinary bladder catheterization as risk factors for postoperative UI.;CONCLUSIONS: UI and OAB rates were higher after gynecologic cancer surgery than in the general female population. The mixed incontinence rate was markedly higher post-surgery; QOL was low for such patients due to the combination of urge and stress incontinence. Multiple Cesarean sections and urinary bladder catheterization post-surgery were risk factors for post-surgical UI.	2020	Nakayama, N;Tsuji, T;Aoyama, M;Fujino, T;Liu, M	BMC Women's Health	10.1186/s12905-020-01012-7
Human Placental Lactogen Mrna In Maternal Plasma Play A Role In Prenatal Diagnosis Of Abnormally Invasive Placenta: Yes Or No?	Objective: To determine whether maternal plasma human placental lactogen (hPL) mRNA levels can predict abnormally invasive placenta. Study design: Sixty-eight singleton pregnant women with prior Cesarean deliveries were classified into three groups: 35 with normal placentation (control group); 21 with placenta previa alone (placenta previa group); 12 with placenta previa and placenta accreta (placenta accreta group). Maternal plasma hPL mRNA concentrations were measured by real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction Result: The multiple of the median (median, range) for hPL mRNA was significantly higher for the placenta accreta group (2.78, 1.09-4.56) than the control (1.00, 0.29-2.98) or placenta previa (1.12, 0.33-3.25) groups (Steel-Dwass test, p < .001 and p = .005, respectively), was not significantly different between the women with placenta accreta who underwent hysterectomies (2.96, 1.38-4.56) and the women whose deliveries did not result in hysterectomy (2.36, 1.09-3.25) in the placenta accreta group (Mann-Whitney U test, p = .372). Conclusion: hPL mRNA in maternal plasma may indicate abnormally invasive placenta but cannot predict whether abnormally invasive placenta will result in hysterectomy.	2019	Li, J;Zhang, N;Zhang, Y;Hu, X;Gao, G;Ye, Y;Peng, W;Zhou, J	Gynecological Endocrinology	10.1080/09513590.2019.1576607
The Association Between Maternal Age And Cerebral Palsy Risk Factors	BACKGROUND: Advanced maternal age is associated with higher frequencies of antenatal and perinatal conditions, as well as a higher risk of cerebral palsy in offspring. We explore the association between maternal age and specific cerebral palsy risk factors.;METHODS: Data were extracted from the Canadian Cerebral Palsy Registry. Maternal age was categorized as >=35 years of age and less than 20 years of age at the time of birth. Chi-square and multivariate logistic regressions were performed to calculate odds ratios and their 95% confidence intervals.;RESULTS: The final sample consisted of 1391 children with cerebral palsy, with 19% of children having mothers aged 35 or older and 4% of children having mothers below the age of 20. Univariate analyses showed that mothers aged 35 or older were more likely to have gestational diabetes (odds ratio 1.9, 95% confidence interval 1.3 to 2.8), to have a history of miscarriage (odds ratio 1.8, 95% confidence interval 1.3 to 2.4), to have undergone fertility treatments (odds ratio 2.4, 95% confidence interval 1.5 to 3.9), and to have delivered by Caesarean section (odds ratio 1.6, 95% confidence interval 1.2 to 2.2). These findings were supported by multivariate analyses. Children with mothers below the age of 20 were more likely to have a congenital malformation (odds ratio 2.4, 95% confidence interval 1.4 to 4.2), which is also supported by multivariate analysis.;CONCLUSIONS: The risk factor profiles of children with cerebral palsy vary by maternal age. Future studies are warranted to further our understanding of the compound causal pathways leading to cerebral palsy and the observed greater prevalence of cerebral palsy with increasing maternal age. Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2018	Schneider, RE;Ng, P;Zhang, X;Andersen, J;Buckley, D;Fehlings, D;Kirton, A;Wood, E;van Rensburg, E;Shevell, MI;Oskoui, M	Pediatric Neurology	10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2018.01.005
Assessment Of Recording Bias In Pregnancy Studies Using Health Care Databases: An Application To Neurologic Conditions	BACKGROUND: Pre-existing conditions are imperfectly recorded in health care databases. We assessed whether pre-existing neurologic conditions (epilepsy, multiple sclerosis [MS]) were differentially recorded in the presence of major obstetric outcomes (Caesarean delivery, preterm delivery, preeclampsia) in delivery records. We also evaluated the impact of differential recording on measures of frequency and association between the conditions and outcomes.;METHODS: The 2011-2014 Truven Health MarketScan R Commercial Claims Dataset was used to identify pregnancies. We calculated the relative recording of epilepsy and MS at delivery hospitalization compared with a 270-day pre-delivery window both overall and by the presence of major obstetric outcomes. We estimated risk ratios for the association between epilepsy and MS with the outcomes for each ascertainment window.;RESULTS: We identified 909 065 pregnancies in women continuously enrolled from 270-days before the delivery date. Of women with epilepsy identified in the pre-delivery window, 73% had the condition coded at delivery. For MS, the proportion was 60%. MS recording at delivery did not vary by obstetric outcomes, however, delivery-coded epilepsy was less likely confirmed in the pre-delivery window in the presence of preeclampsia. Generally, the period of ascertainment did not meaningfully impact risk ratios, however, the risk ratio for preeclampsia associated with epilepsy was 1.67 (95% CI 1.47, 1.90) when epilepsy was ascertained at delivery and 1.26 (95% CI 1.07, 1.48) when epilepsy was ascertained in the pre-delivery window (heterogeneity, P = .007).;CONCLUSIONS: Ascertainment of epilepsy and MS in delivery hospitalization records underestimated prevalence. However, the window of recording generally did not impact risk ratio estimates of associations with obstetric outcomes. Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.	2018	MacDonald, SC;Hernan, MA;McElrath, TF;Hernandez-Diaz, S	Paediatric and Perinatal Epidemiology	10.1111/ppe.12459
Early Fecal Microbiota Composition In Children Who Later Develop Celiac Disease And Associated Autoimmunity	OBJECTIVES: Several studies have reported that the intestinal microbiota composition of celiac disease (CD) patients differs from healthy individuals. The possible role of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of the disease is, however, not known. Here, we aimed to assess the possible differences in early fecal microbiota composition between children that later developed CD and healthy controls matched for age, sex and HLA risk genotype.;MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used 16S rRNA gene sequencing to examine the fecal microbiota of 27 children with high genetic risk of developing CD. Nine of these children developed the disease by the age of 4 years. Stool samples were collected at the age of 9 and 12 months, before any of the children had developed CD. The fecal microbiota composition of children who later developed the disease was compared with the microbiota of the children who did not have CD or associated autoantibodies at the age of 4 years. Delivery mode, early nutrition, and use of antibiotics were taken into account in the analyses.;RESULTS: No statistically significant differences in the fecal microbiota composition were found between children who later developed CD (n = 9) and the control children without disease or associated autoantibodies (n = 18).;CONCLUSIONS: Based on our results, the fecal microbiota composition at the age of 9 and 12 months is not associated with the development of CD. Our results, however, do not exclude the possibility of duodenal microbiota changes or a later microbiota-related trigger for the disease.	2018	Rintala, A;Riikonen, I;Toivonen, A;Pietila, S;Munukka, E;Pursiheimo, JP;Elo, LL;Arikoski, P;Luopajarvi, K;Schwab, U;Uusitupa, M;Heinonen, S;Savilahti, E;Eerola, E;Ilonen, J	Scandinavian Journal of Gastroenterology	10.1080/00365521.2018.1444788
Expression Of Microrna-146A And Microrna-155 In Placental Villi In Early- And Late-Onset Preeclampsia	We studied the expression of microRNA-146a and microRNA-155 in placental villi from 18 women (26-39 weeks of gestation) of reproductive age with early- or late-onset preeclampsia. The reference group consisted of women with physiological pregnancy and full-term gestation and with preterm birth after caesarian section on gestation week 26-31. MicroRNA-146a and microRNA-155 were detected by in situ hybridization with digoxigenin on paraffin sections. It was found that the expression of microRNA-146a in both syncytiotrophoblast of the intermediate villi and syncytial knots was lower at late-onset preeclampsia than at physiologic pregnancy of full-term period (p=0.037 and p=0.001 respectively). The expression of microRNA-155 in syncytiotrophoblast of intermediate placental villi in early-onset preeclampsia was higher than in group with preterm delivery (p=0.003). However, in syncytiotrophoblast of intermediate villi and in syncytial knots, the expression of microRNA-155 was lower at late-onset preeclampsia in comparison with full-term physiological pregnancy (p=0.005). In addition, the expression of microRNA-146a and microRNA-155 did not increase in the later terms in preeclampsia, while in the reference groups demonstrating gradual increase in the expression of these markers with increasing gestational age. Expression microRNA-146a and microRNA-155 little differed in early- and late-onset preeclampsia. These findings suggest that different variants of preeclampsia are probably characterized by common pathogenetic pathways. Damaged trophoblast cannot maintain of microRNAs synthesis at the required level, which determines the formation of a vicious circle in preeclampsia and further progression of the disease.	2017	Nizyaeva, NV;Kulikova, GV;Nagovitsyna, MN;Kan, NE;Prozorovskaya, KN;Shchegolev, AI;Sukhikh, GT	Bulletin of Experimental Biology & Medicine	10.1007/s10517-017-3812-0
Women'S Pelvic Floor Muscle Strength And Urinary And Anal Incontinence After Childbirth: A Cross-Sectional Study	OBJECTIVE: To analyse pelvic floor muscle strength (PFMS) and urinary and anal incontinence (UI and AI) in the postpartum period.;METHOD: Cross-sectional study carried out with women in their first seven months after child birth. Data were collected through interviews, perineometry (Peritron TM), and the International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-SF).;RESULTS: 128 women participated in the study. The PFMS mean was 33.1 (SD=16.0) cmH2O and the prevalence of UI and AI was 7.8% and 5.5%, respectively. In the multiple analyses, the variables associated with PFMS were type of birth and cohabitation with a partner. Newborn's weight, previous pregnancy, UI during pregnancy, and sexual activity showed an association with UI after child birth. Only AI prior to pregnancy was associated with AI after childbirth.;CONCLUSION: Vaginal birth predisposes to the reduction of PFMS, and caesarean section had a protective effect to its reduction. The occurrence of UI during pregnancy is a predictor of UI after childbirth, and women with previous pregnancies and newborns with higher weights are more likely to have UI after childbirth.AI prior to pregnancy is the only risk factor for its occurrence after childbirth. Associations between PFMS and cohabitation with a partner, and between UI and sexual activity do not make possible to conclude that these variables are directly associated.;OBJETIVO: Analisar a forca dos musculos do assoalho pelvico e a incontinencia urinaria e anal no periodo pos-parto.;METODO: Estudo transversal realizado com mulheres nos primeiros 7 meses apos o parto. Os dados foram coletados por meio de entrevista, da perineometria (Peritron TM) e do International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-SF).;RESULTADOS: Participaram do estudo 128 mulheres. A media da forca dos musculos do assoalho pelvico foi 33,1 (d.p.=16,0) cmH2O e a prevalencia de incontinencia urinaria e incontinencia anal foi de 7,8% e 5,5%, respectivamente. Na analise multipla, as variaveis associadas a forca dos musculos do assoalho pelvico foram tipo de parto atual e coabitacao com o parceiro. Peso do recem-nascido, gestacao anterior, incontinencia urinaria na gestacao e atividade sexual mostraram associacao. Apenas a incontinencia anal previa a gestacao associou-se a incontinencia anal apos o parto.;CONCLUSAO: O parto vaginal predispoe a reducao da forca dos musculos do assoalho pelvico, e a cesariana exerce funcao protetora a sua reducao. A ocorrencia de incontinencia urinaria na gestacao e preditora da incontinencia urinaria apos o parto, e as mulheres com gestacao anterior e recem-nascido de maior peso tem maior propensao em apresentar incontinencia urinaria apos o parto. Incontinencia anal previa a gestacao e o unico fator de risco para sua ocorrencia apos o parto. As associacoes entre forca dos musculos do assoalho pelvico e coabitacao com o parceiro e entre incontinencia urinaria e atividade sexual nao permitem concluir que essas variaveis estejam diretamente relacionadas.	2017	Zizzi, PT;Trevisan, KF;Leister, N;Cruz, CD;Riesco, ML	Revista Da Escola de Enfermagem Da Usp	10.1590/S1980-220X2016209903214
Fine-Needle Aspiration Cytology Of Endometriosis	Endometriosis commonly involves the pelvis, but may also present as a palpable mass in extrapelvic sites, such as the abdominal wall or inguinal region, where it can be evaluated by fine needle aspiration (FNA). In this report, we illustrate the findings seen in seven cases of endometriosis diagnosed by FNA in patients with a chief complaint of pain associated with an abdominal wall or pelvic mass, occurring in a setting of prior pelvic surgery. The most common previous surgery was Cesarean section (n = 6), followed by hysterectomy (n = 2), and hernia repair (n = 1). In all cases, cytologic examination revealed a glandular component composed largely of orderly fragments of cohesive epithelial cells, a spindle cell stromal component presenting either as loosely organized tissue fragments or single cells, and rare hemosiderin-laden macrophages. Four cases showed focal cytologic atypia in the glandular component with extreme nuclear atypia identified in two of these cases. Atypical features included nuclear crowding and disorganization, nuclear enlargement, hyperchromasia with irregular chromatin distribution and anisonucleosis, raising the possibility of a coexistent malignancy and recommendation for excision. Although malignancy was not identified in follow-up surgical excision specimens, the wide range of cytomorphologic changes that can be seen in FNA specimens of endometriosis should be recognized. Diagn. Cytopathol. 2017;45:359-363. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Copyright © 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	2017	Song, SJ;McGrath, CM;Yu, GH	Diagnostic Cytopathology	10.1002/dc.23670
Prayer And Meditation Among Danish First Time Mothers-A Questionnaire Study	BACKGROUND: Mothers' existential dimensions in the transition to motherhood have not been described thoroughly. They might experience disruption and new perspectives in existential ways and this may especially be the case in preterm birth. The aim of this study was twofold. First we investigated the existential dimension of motherhood transition in a secularized context, through practices of prayer and meditation. Second we described the relationship between time of birth (term/preterm) and the prayer/meditation practices of the mothers.;METHODS: Data were gathered from a nationwide questionnaire survey among first time mothers conducted during the summer 2011. All Danish women who gave birth before the 32(nd) pregnancy week (n = 255), and double the number of mothers who gave birth at full term (n = 658) in 2010 were included (total n = 913). The questionnaire consisted of 46 overall items categorized in seven sections, which independently cover important aspects of existential meaning-making related to becoming a mother. The respondent rate was 57% (n = 517).;RESULTS: Moments of praying or meditation 6-18 months post partum were reported by 65%, and mothers who responded affirmatively, practiced prayer (n = 286) more than meditation (n = 89), p < 0,001. We did not observe differences in affirmative responses to prayer or meditation between mothers of full term or preterm born children, not even after controlling for perinatal or post partum loss, mode of birth, age, status of cohabiting or education.;CONCLUSIONS: In this explorative study we found specific practices of existential meaning-making through prayer and/or meditation among first time mothers, living in a very secularized context. Yet we know only little about character or importance of these practices among mothers, and hardly anything about existential meaning-making among new fathers. Hence the implications of meaning-making practices related to other dimensions of health are difficult to address in a qualified way in care for new mothers and families.	2016	Prinds, C;Hvidtjorn, D;Skytthe, A;Mogensen, O;Hvidt, NC	BMC Pregnancy & Childbirth	10.1186/s12884-016-0802-6
Assessing First-Stage Labor Progression And Its Relationship To Complications	BACKGROUND: New labor curves have challenged the traditional understanding of the general pattern of dilation and descent in labor. They also revealed wide variation in the time to advance in dilation. An interval of arrest such as 4 hours did not fall beyond normal limits until dilation had reached 6 cm. Thus, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists/Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine first-stage arrest criteria, based in part on these findings, are applicable only in late labor. The wide range of time to dilate is unavoidable because cervical dilation has neither a precise nor direct relationship to time. Newer statistical techniques (multifactorial models) can improve precision by incorporating several factors that are related directly to labor progress. At each examination, the calculations adapt to the mother's current labor conditions. They produce a quantitative assessment that is expressed in percentiles. Low percentiles indicate potentially problematic labor progression.;OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess the relationship between first-stage labor progress- and labor-related complications with the use of 2 different assessment methods. The first method was based on arrest of dilation definitions. The other method used percentile rankings of dilation or station based on adaptive multifactorial models.;STUDY DESIGN: We included all 4703 cephalic-presenting, term, singleton births with electronic fetal monitoring and cord gases at 2 academic community referral hospitals in 2012 and 2013. We assessed electronic data for route of delivery, all dilation and station examinations, newborn infant status, electronic fetal monitoring tracings, and cord blood gases. The labor-related complication groups included 272 women with cesarean delivery for first-stage arrest, 558 with cesarean delivery for fetal heart rate concerns, 178 with obstetric hemorrhage, and 237 with neonatal depression, which left 3004 women in the spontaneous vaginal birth group. Receiver operating characteristic curves were constructed for each assessment method by measurement of the sensitivity for each complication vs the false-positive rate in the normal reference group.;RESULTS: The duration of arrest at >=6 cm dilation showed poor levels of discrimination for the cesarean delivery interventions (area under the curve, 0.55-0.65; P < .01) and no significant relationship to hemorrhage or neonatal depression. The dilation and station percentiles showed high discrimination for the cesarean delivery-related outcomes (area under the curve, 0.78-0.93; P < .01) and low discrimination for the clinical outcomes of hemorrhage and neonatal depression (area under the curve, 0.58-0.61; P < .01).;CONCLUSIONS: Duration of arrest of dilation at >=6 cm showed little or no discrimination for any of the complications. In comparison, percentile rankings that were based on the adaptive multifactorial models showed much higher discrimination for cesarean delivery interventions and better, but low discrimination for hemorrhage. Adaptive multifactorial models present a different method to assess labor progress. Rather than pass/fail criteria that are applicable only to dilation in late labor, they produce percentile rankings, assess 2 essential processes for vaginal birth (dilation and descent), and can be applied from 3 cm onward. Given the limitations of labor-progress assessment based solely on the passage of time and because of the extreme variation in decision-making for cesarean delivery for labor disorders, the types of mathematic analyses that are described in this article are logical and promising steps to help standardize labor assessment. Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2016	Hamilton, EF;Warrick, PA;Collins, K;Smith, S;Garite, TJ	American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology	10.1016/j.ajog.2015.10.016
The Effect Of Maternal Obesity On Pregnancy Outcome In Correlation With Placental Pathology	OBJECTIVES: To investigate the effect of maternal obesity on pregnancy outcome and placental histopathology.;STUDY DESIGN: Pregnancy outcome and placental histology from term pregnancies were reviewed. Women were divided according to their prepregnancy body mass index (BMI, kg/m(2)) as normal weight (18-24.9) and obese (>= 30). Pregnancy outcome and placental histology were compared between obese and normal weight women with complicated pregnancies, and with uncomplicated pregnancies, matched by mode of delivery. Placental lesions were classified as lesions of maternal or fetal vascular supply and maternal (MIR) and fetal (FIR) inflammatory responses.;RESULTS: Of the 1047 complicated pregnancies analyzed, 615 were with normal weight (BMI 21.7 +/- 1.8) and 221 were obese (BMI 35.2 +/- 4.3). Obesity was associated with higher rates of diabetes and hypertensive disorders (P = .001 for both), birth weight >90th, P < .001, and cesarean delivery, P < .001. Placental weight was higher in obese than in normal weight women, P < .001. No difference was observed in the rate of placental lesions related to maternal or fetal vascular supply and MIR or FIR between the groups. However, higher rate of maternal placental vascular lesions (46.8% vs 28.2%, P = .012) was observed in uncomplicated obese women (n = 62) as compared with healthy normal weight (n = 124) uncomplicated controls.;CONCLUSION: Pregnancy outcome is worse without different placental component in obese versus normal weight women, with complicated pregnancies. In uncomplicated pregnancies, more maternal placental vascular supply lesions exist in obese versus normal weight women, suggesting background placental compromise. Copyright © The Author(s) 2015.	2015	Kovo, M;Zion-Saukhanov, E;Schreiber, L;Mevorach, N;Divon, M;Ben-Haroush, A;Bar, J	Reproductive Sciences	10.1177/1933719115592712
Geross (German Obstetric Surveillance System). A Project To Improve The Treatment Of Obstetric Rare Diseases And Complications Using A Web Based Documentation And Information Platform	BACKGROUND: Severe and very rare obstetric complications (e.g. eclampsia, postpartum haemorrhage or uterine rupture), typically culminate in a chaotic, uncontrollable sequence of events. Outcome for mother and child depends on whether doctors and midwives are able to quickly take correct decisions and initiate optimal treatment.;OBJECTIVES: GerOSS (German Obstetric Surveillance System) aims at generating deeper insight into relevant risk factors to improve diagnosis and treatment of severe complications during pregnancy and delivery. As such it is primarily conceived as a system for quality improvement and less as a register. Another focus is the provision of an information and communication platform for dissemination of these insights. Finally, incidences of selected rare obstetric events may be derived.;METHODS: These rare events are monitored for two to five years in Lower Saxony, Bavaria and Berlin. Quantitative analyses of aggregate data are complemented with in depth case based anonymised evaluations by experts. The temporal sequence of measures taken as well as the management of care is inspected. Participants receive a feedback of comments on the synopsis of individual cases. Aggregate data results are published and made available through the GerOSS platform. A scientific advisory committee ensures the link with the professional scientific bodies. A comparison within INOSS (International Network of Obstetric Survey Systems) allows additional insights into the treatment of obstetric rare diseases and complications. More reliable estimates of the incidence of such events can be computed and compared within a larger database.;RESULTS: Following the implementation in three federal states in Germany in 2010, participation in GerOSS-Project has increased to 100% of all hospitals with a delivery unit in Lower Saxony, 30% in Bavaria and 80% in Berlin. Feasibility of the project is shown by successful implementation of GerOSS. Quantitative analyses enable construction of risk profiles (e.g. for the prevalence of hysterectomies and uterine ruptures) such that tailored treatment algorithms may be derived. Age, body mass index and previous caesarean section are common risk factors when complications occur. Respective recommendations have not always been adhered to in the diagnosis and therapy of such cases. The presentation of initial GerOSS results has paved the path for first changes in obstetric care.;CONCLUSIONS: The envisaged expansion of GerOSS to an interactive platform will allow dissemination of insights such that optimal obstetric care and transferal among all involved medical facilities may see future enhancements via the internet or even through smartphone applications.	2015	Berlage, S;Grusner, S;Lack, N;Franz, HB	Methods of Information in Medicine	10.3414/ME14-01-0141
Correlations Between Sonographically Measured And Actual Incision Site Thickness Of Lower Uterine Segment After Repeated Caesarean Section	AIM: The aim of the present study was to verify how much the sonographically measured thickness of the lower uterine segment caesarean-section (LUS-CS) scar correlates with incision site thickness in a repeated caesarean section after uterotonic administration.;METHODS: Sixty-three obstetric patients at term undergoing repeated caesarean section. LUS-CS thickness was measured sonographically before the repeated caesarean. Some seconds after delivery of the fetus and placenta and administration of an institutional, standard uterotonic, LUS was measured on the site of surgical incision (upper side and lower side) using Castroviejo's caliper. Multiple measurements were taken and averaged for improving accuracy. Mean measurements were used for calculations (unilinear correlations and multilinear regression analyses.).;RESULTS: Poor correlation was found between sonographically measured scar thickness and lower uterine side incision thickness (r 0.311; C.I. 95% 0.068-0.519; P=0.013) and between sonographically measured scar thickness and uterine scar overall incision thickness (mean of upper side and lower side measurements) (r 0.254; C.I. 95% 0.007-0.472; P=0.045). Sonographically measured scar thickness was smaller in patients with two or more previous caesareans (P=0.045) and greater in patients who had undergone the last of the previous caesarean sections longer than two years earlier (P=0.043). Patients with two or more previous caesareans had smaller upper-side incision thickness (P=0.005); smaller lower-side incision thickness (P=0.038); smaller incision site overall thickness (P=0.006).;CONCLUSION: Sonographically measured thickness and incision site thickness of the LUS-CS scar are poorly correlated (about 25%), despite the fact that patients most at risk for uterine rupture have thinner LUS, both sonographically and when measured during surgery.	2015	Indraccolo, U;Scutiero, G;Matteo, M;Mastricci, AL;Barone, I;Greco, P	Minerva Ginecologica	
How Do Maternal Views Of Delivery Outcomes Vary By Demographics And Preferred Mode Of Delivery?	OBJECTIVE: To investigate how maternal views of delivery outcomes vary by demographic characteristics and preference toward mode of delivery (MOD).;STUDY DESIGN: Survey of 719 pregnant women in outpatient clinics at an academic institution during their third trimester. Women ranked outcomes such as vaginal delivery (VD), cesarean delivery (CD), urinary incontinence, perineal lacerations, and induction of labor (IOL) on a visual analog scale (VAS) in order of worst imaginable (0) to best possible (100) outcomes.;RESULTS: Women of all ages ranked VD as more desirable than CD. However, women >= 35 years of age had greater valuations of both MOD compared with women <35 years, with mean VAS scores of 88.4 versus 86.4 for VD (p < 0.001) and 61.5 versus 51.9 for CD (p < 0.001). Women with a college education or higher also rated both MOD as more desirable than women with less than a college education. Additionally, women who preferred VD rather than CD had greater valuations of perineal laceration (43.3 vs. 31.5, p = 0.001) and urinary incontinence (40.7 vs. 30.1, p = 0.002).;CONCLUSION: Significant differences exist in women's views toward MOD and peripartum outcomes, by demographics and preferred MOD. Understanding delivery preferences better enables clinicians to counsel women about labor and management options. Copyright Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.	2015	Sparks, TN;Yeaton-Massey, A;Granados, JM;Handler, SJ;Meyer, M;Caughey, AB	American Journal of Perinatology	10.1055/s-0034-1395480
Evaluation Of Neonatal Toll-Like Receptors 3 (C.1377C/T) And 9 (G2848A) Gene Polymorphisms In Hbv Intrauterine Transmission Susceptibility	To investigate whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in Toll-like receptors (TLRs) 3 and 9 affect the susceptibility of hepatitis B virus (HBV) intrauterine transmission, we genotyped 399 neonates for TLR3 (c.1377C/T) [rs3775290] and TLR9 (G2848A) [rs352140] using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). A femoral venous blood sample was obtained from these subjects. Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) were measured using chemiluminescence immunoassay kits and hepatitis B virus DNA (HBV DNA) levels were determined by fluorescence quantitative PCR assay. Our results showed that when adjusting for maternal HBeAg, maternal HBV DNA and mode of delivery, allele 'T' for SNP c.1377C/T was significantly associated with HBV intrauterine transmission susceptibility [adjusted OR (aOR) 0.55, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.34-0.91, P = 0.020] and the TT genotype decreased the risk of HBV intrauterine transmission (aOR 0.28, 95% CI 0.09-0.91, P = 0.033). Allele 'A' for SNP G2848A was significantly associated with HBV intrauterine transmission susceptibility (aOR 0.62, 95% CI 0.39-1.00, P = 0.048) and the GA genotype protected neonates from HBV intrauterine transmission (aOR 0.45, 95% CI 0.22-0.93, P = 0.031). The TLR3 (c.1377C/T) and TLR9 (G2848A) polymorphisms may be relevant for HBV intrauterine transmission susceptibility, although the reduction in risk to HBV intrauterine transmission is modest and the biological mechanism of the observed association merits further investigation.	2015	Gao, Y;Guo, J;Zhang, F;Guo, Z;Zhang, LR;Wang, T;Wang, B;Feng, SY;Wang, SP	Epidemiology & Infection	10.1017/S0950268814002921
Characteristics Of Postpartum Pain Associated With Vaginal And Caesarean Births	BACKGROUND: It is desirable that nursing mothers should return to normal activities so as to encourage early care of the newborn. This desire will be met if the common postpartum maternal morbidities are identified and managed accordingly.;OBJECTIVE: To identify and characterize postpartum pain in the immediate postpartum period after vaginal or caesarean birth.;METHODS: Women who delivered in our hospital; over 18 years, delivered of a live neonate and were in hospital for at least 2 days were studied. The socio-demographic characteristics, site of pain and self report of pain were recorded. The mothers were interviewed to describe the nature of postpartum pain using the Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire.;RESULTS: A total of 116 patients participated in the study; 50/116 were nulliparous, and 100/116 received prenatal care. The incidence of pain was 82.8%. 55/74 women who had vaginal delivery and 41/42 post c-section women had pain. Only 51/96 women reported their pain and a good proportion of the women received some form of analgesia for the pain. Post c-section women were more likely to use affective descriptors than those who had vaginal delivery. The use of affective descriptors provoked higher VAS scores.;CONCLUSION: Pain in the immediate postpartum period is common and more severe in women who had caesarean section than vaginal delivery. There is need to improve current methods of managing postpartum pain in the sub-region.	2014	Imarengiaye, CO;Akhideno, I;Omoifo, EC	West African Journal of Medicine	
Intrauterine Growth Restriction And Prematurity Influence Regulatory T Cell Development In Newborns	PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to determine the relationship of birth weight and gestational age with regulatory T cells (Tregs) in cord blood of human newborns.;METHODS: Cord blood mononuclear cells (CBMCs) of 210 newborns were analyzed using flow cytometry to identify Tregs (CD3(+), CD4(+), CD25(high), FoxP3(high)) and measure FoxP3 mean fluorescence intensity (MFI). Suppressive index (SI) was calculated as FoxP3 MFI per Treg.;RESULTS: Mode of delivery had no significant effect on Tregs at birth. Term babies with growth restriction had fewer Tregs than their appropriate weight counterparts but equivalent SI. Preterm babies had higher percentages of Tregs, but lower SI than term controls. SI steadily increased through gestation.;CONCLUSIONS: Intrauterine growth restriction is correlated with fewer circulating Tregs and prematurity with decreased functionality of Tregs compared to term appropriate weight infants. This may have implications in diseases such as necrotizing enterocolitis that disproportionately affect premature and lower birth weight infants. Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	2014	Mukhopadhyay, D;Weaver, L;Tobin, R;Henderson, S;Beeram, M;Newell-Rogers, MK;Perger, L	Journal of Pediatric Surgery	10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2014.02.055
Perfectionism, Intolerance Of Uncertainty, And Fear Of Childbirth In Pregnant And Non-Pregnant Women	Antecedentes: El miedo al parto (MP) influye de un modo adverso en el mismo y en la salud materna e infantil. El estudio tiene por objeto analizar la prevalencia del MP y el papel del perfeccionismo, la intolerancia a la incertidumbre y la preparación para el parto para explicar el MP en mujeres embarazadas y no embarazadas así como el papel que juega el modo de alumbramiento en mujeres multíparas. Método: En el estudio transversal 197 mujeres no encintas, 168 embarazadas nulíparas y 124 multíparas cumplimentaron cuestionarios sobre MP (W-DEQ), perfeccionismo (PNPS), intolerancia a la incertidumbre (IUS) y una pregunta sobre preparación para el parto. Resultados: Los determinantes más importantes del MP fueron los rasgos de personalidad (perfeccionismo e intolerancia a la incertidumbre) en mujeres no encintas y en embarazadas nulíparas en oposición a la experiencia previa de parto (cesárea de emergencia) en mujeres multíparas. No obstante, la preparación para el parto se asociaba al MP en los tres subgrupos. Conclusión: La preparación para el parto debería abordarse en las clases prenatales para aliviar el MP. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved)	2023	Kuljanac, Anđela;Brekalo, Maja;Nakić Radoš, Sandra	Clínica y Salud	10.5093/clysa2023a17
Revisiting Head Circumference Of Brazilian Newborns In Public And Private Maternity Hospitals	Objetivo: Revisitar o perímetro cefálico (PC) de recém nascidos (RN) correlacionando com a idade gestacional (IG), gênero, tipo de parto (TP), sistema de saúde e construir e validar gráficos e curvas. Métodos: Estudou-se prospectivamente RN sadios analisando-se as diferenças entre os PC segundo a IG, gênero, TP e sistema de saúde. As curvas suavizadas de percentis foram criadas pelo método LMS (least mean squares). Resultados: 692 nasceram em maternidades privadas, 2.150 em maternidade pública, 839 nasceram de parto vaginal e 1.311 parto cesáreo. O gênero masculino apresentou PC maior que o feminino nas IG de 37 a 42 semanas. Os RN de maternidades privadas tiveram PC maior que os de maternidade pública. Os nascidos de parto cesáreo tiveram PC maior que os de parto vaginal. Conclusão: Importante consequência deste estudo foi que os resultados permitiram a criação de curvas e gráficos validados estatisticamente de aplicabilidade na prática clínica neonatal. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved)	2017	do Socorro Teixeira Amorim, Maria;de Melo, Aurea, Nogueira	Arquivos de Neuro-Psiquiatria	10.1590/0004-282x20170058
Factors Associated With Post-Rewarming Procalcitonin Levels In Newborns With Hypoxic Ischemic Encephalopathy	Objective: To determine the factors associated with the procalcitonin levels in newborns with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) who received therapeutic hypothermia (TH). Material(s) and Method(s): The neonates, who had moderate/severe HIE and were treated with TH, were included. The neonates were arranged into 2 groups by procalcitonin (PCT) level after rewarming was completed. The neonates who had a procalcitonin level of < 2.5 ng/ml constituted Group 1 and the ones who had a procalcitonin level of >= 2.5 ng/ml constituted Group 2. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression was used to assess the factors related with PCT level. Result(s): The first group included 123 (87.9%) neonates and the second group included 17 (12.1%) neonates. The median gestational age was 38 (36-39) weeks and the mean birth weight was 3081.7 +/- 552.8 grams. In group 2, the rates for severe HIE, cesarean section, antibiotic switch, convulsion, inotrope use and mortality were higher, and duration of hospitalization was longer, whereas Apgar scores were lower (P < .05). The risk of a high procalcitonin level was found to be 6-fold (95% CI 1.9-19.1) higher in severe HIE and 5.2-fold higher (95% CI 1.7-16) in cesarean delivery. Conclusion(s): In neonates with HIE/TH, high post-rewarming procalcitonin levels were related with severe HIE and cesarean delivery. Some other clinical and laboratory findings, which may reflect worse clinical status, were also associated with high procalcitonin levels.Copyright © 2024, AVES. All rights reserved.	2024	Gunes, A.O.;Bozkaya, A.;Avlanmis, M.E.	Turkish Archives of Pediatrics	10.5152/TurkArchPediatr.2024.24089
Fetomaternal Outcome In Patients Suffering With Diabetes In Pregnancy	Introduction: Diabetes mellitus is a disorder of carbohydrate metabolism0 It is most common medical complication of pregnancy0 Women can be separated into those who were known to have diabetes before pregnancy-pregestational or overt, and those diagnosed before pregnancy- gestational diabetes0 Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is defined as any degree of glucose intolerance with onset or first recognition during pregnancy 10 Pregnancy confers a state of insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia that may predispose some women to develop diabetes0 Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) occurs when a woman's pancreatic function is not sufficient to overcome the diabetogenic environment of pregnancy0 Undiagnosed or inadequately treated GDM can lead to significant maternal & fetal complications 20 Aims and Objectives Feto-maternal outcome in patients of pregnancy with diabetes was studied with following aims * To review different diagnostic criteria for GDM0 * To study proportion of diabetes in pregnancy, both gestational diabetes and overt diabetes0 * To study feto-maternal outcome and complication in pregnancy with diabetes0 * To plan management of pregnancy with diabetes and to decrease fetomaternal morbidity and mortality0 Materials and Methods A prospective case study was conducted on 70 Diabetic Patients at a tertiary care centre ND Desai Institute of Medical science and research, Nadiad, to study the fetomaternal outcome during December 2020 to August 20210 All necessary investigations were carried out0 The data collected was analyzed and tabulations were made0 Result and Discussion Total 70 patients were analyzed0 Out of them maximum patients had gestational diabetes rather than Overt diabetes0 maximum patients belonged to age group 20-29 years0 maximum patients had positive family history of diabetes and were multipara with polyhydroamnios0 Maximum patients required insulin for treatment of diabetes mellitus during pregnancy along with medical nutrition therapy and exercise0 Regular insulin was used in all patients0 maximum patients were delivered by caesarean section0.Copyright © 2023 EManuscript Technologies. All rights reserved.	2023	Chavda, G.;Purohit, P.;Shah, A.;Navale, S.;Choksi, S.;Upadhyay, C.	Journal of Cardiovascular Disease Research	10.31838/jcdr.2023.14.04.100
Timing Of Elective Caesarean Section At Term On Neonatal Morbidities	Objective: To compare the incidence of neonatal morbidities with elective caesarean sections at different weeks of gestation in Hong Kong. Method(s): Medical records of all women with an elective caesarean section performed at gestational age >=37 weeks in Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Hong Kong, between 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2018 were retrospectively reviewed. Adverse neonatal outcomes collected included respiratory distress syndrome, transient tachypnoea, persistent pulmonary hypertension, sepsis, and neonatal intensive care unit admission. Result(s): A total of 1576 records were analysed. Overall, 74.68% of babies were delivered at 38 weeks' gestation. The most common adverse neonatal outcome was transient tachypnoea (6.66%), followed by neonatal intensive care unit admission (5.90%), respiratory distress syndrome (5.26%), and sepsis (4.69%). Compared with babies born at 39 weeks' gestation, those born at 37 weeks' gestation were at increased risk of respiratory distress syndrome (odds ratio [OR]=5.438, p=0.024), neonatal intensive care unit admission (OR=3.938, p=0.027), a composite respiratory outcome (OR=3.402, p=0.007), and an overall composite outcome (OR=3.397, p=0.002). Conclusion(s): Elective caesarean delivery at 37 weeks' gestation is associated with higher risks of respiratory distress syndrome and neonatal intensive care unit admission, compared with elective caesarean delivery at 39 weeks' gestation.Copyright © 2023 Obstetrical & Gynaecological Society of Hong Kong and Hong Kong Midwives Association.	2023	Ma, M.K.T.;Leung, K.-Y.	Hong Kong Journal of Gynaecology Obstetrics and Midwifery	10.12809/hkjgom.23.2.343
Study Of Obstetric And Foetal Outcome In Women With Short Interpregnancy Interval After Previous Caesarean Delivery	Objective: To study the effect study of obstetric and foetal outcome in women with short interpregnancy interval after previous caesarean delivery. Method(s): All patients admitted for MTP, abortion, and delivery after short inter pregnancy interval with previous caesarean delivery will be included with consideration of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Anemia, scar dehiscence, uterine rupture, PPH, PROM, and premature delivery were all associated to mothers' short IPI. Low birth weight, preterm, IUFD, stillbirth and neonatal death were foetal problems associated to short IPI. Result(s): This study emphasizes the gloomy attitude of family spacing among couples. It was directly correlated with several demographic characteristics, including low levels of literacy, rural residents, and lower socioeconomic class. The most frequent causes of short IPI included poor antecedent birth outcomes, child sex preference, unintended pregnancies, non-use of family planning methods, contraceptive failure, lack of understanding regarding recommended birth intervals, and female gender of antecedent birth. Anemia, scar dehiscence, uterine rupture, PPH, PROM, and premature delivery were all associated to mothers' short IPI. Low birth weight, preterm, IUFD, stillbirth and neonatal death were foetal problems associated to short IPI. Conclusion(s): Social initiatives like raising the educational level of the population and expanding access to contraception will support appropriate IPI and enhance mother outcomes. It will be possible to attain the best maternal health by further enhancing the education campaigns on contraception and encouraging couples to adopt sufficient spacing with the support of primary care physicians. The study's findings will help policymakers further educate healthcare professionals at all levels about the need of promoting the ideal inter-pregnancy interval, as stressed by the WHO.Copyright © 2023, Dr Yashwant Research Labs Pvt Ltd. All rights reserved.	2023	Kuhikar, S.;Shrivastava, S.;Chandel, K.;Soni, S.	International Journal of Pharmaceutical and Clinical Research	
Effect Of Delivery Mode On Admission To Neonatal Intensive Care Unit In Healthy Singleton Pregnancies	Objective: The aim of this study was to evaluate the short-term results of perinatal health in vaginal and cesarean deliveries and the indications for admission to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) in terms of healthy singleton pregnancies. Material(s) and Method(s): In this study, 300 pregnant women who gave birth in our tertiary hospital was included. The records of newborns admitted to the NICU of these pregnant women were reviewed between January 1, 2019 and January 1, 2021. Durations of newborn hospitalizations and problems encountered during admission were recorded. The results were statistically evaluated. Result(s): There was no significant difference between vaginal delivery and cesarean section groups in terms of the indications for admission to the NICU of term low-risk pregnant women (p=0.91, p=0.17). A higher admission in the NICU was found in the early term group. The early term group required more respiratory support compared to the full term group (p=0.02). When the groups were compared in terms of IV fluid treatment support, hypoglycemia or feeding difficulty, and jaundice requiring phototherapy, no significant difference was found. Conclusion(s): Withlimited data available for admission indications to the NICU of newborns born from term pregnancies, we found that the mode of delivery affects hospitalization indications of newborns, need for support, and Apgar scores. Early term delivery is associated with higher rates of neonatal morbidity and admission to the NICU. Better maternal care and prevention of factors that may lead to preterm birth will provide the prevention and management of these problems.Copyright © 2023 by Turkish Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology.	2023	Ulubasoglu, H.;Findik, R.B.;Uzunlar, O.;Canpolat, F.E.;Aydogdu, F.E.;Tekin, O.M.	Turkish Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology	10.4274/tjod.galenos.2023.94831
Evaluation Of Awareness, Acceptability, And Clinical Outcome Of Postpartum Vaginal Insertion And Intra-Cesarean Insertion Of Intrauterine Contraceptive Device	Background: Post-placental and intra-cesarean insertion of intrauterine contraceptive devices (PPIUCD) is a lucrative family planning method which provides safe, effective reversible, inexpensive, non-hormonal, and long-acting contraception. Aims and Objectives: The objective of the study is to evaluate the postpartum insertion of intrauterine contraceptive device in terms of awareness, acceptance, safety, efficacy, continuation, and removal rate and its complications in both vaginal as well as intra-cesarean section (CS) insertion. Material(s) and Method(s): Prospective observational study conducted in Obstetrics and Gynaecology Department GMERS sola for 6 months. Two thousand and ninety-four pregnant women from labor room who delivered vaginally or by CS during study period were asked regarding their knowledge and acceptability for PPIUCD. Result(s): Total 2094 women evaluated for awareness and acceptance for PPIUCD. About 68.66% were familiar with the concept with 29.99% giving verbal consent for its insertion. About 60.01% women refused for various reasons. Conclusion(s): This study shows that PPIUCD insertion is a safe and convenient method which requires more population awareness, counseling, and usage.Copyright © 2023 Shilpa Gupta, et al.	2023	Gupta, S.;Modi, K.;Maheta, L.	National Journal of Physiology, Pharmacy and Pharmacology	10.5455/njppp.2023.13.10478202214112022
Fetomaternal Outcome In Women Undergoing Caesarean Section In First Stage Vs Second Stage Of Labour	Background:Second stage caesarean is technically more difficult due to deep engagement of fetal head, and this is associated with increased risk of maternal morbidity such as surgical injuries and intra operative excessive haemorrhage as well as fetal morbidity such as asphyxia and fetal injury. A Prospective study was done to compare the maternal and neonatal complications of caesarean sections performed in second stage compared to first stage of labour. Objective(s): To determine the maternal and perinatal outcome associated with caesarean sections performed in second stage versus first stage of labour. Material(s) and Method(s): It is an observational cross-sectional study where 7033 women were enrolled in the study, out of them 1272underwent C- section in first stage of labour where as rest152 underwent caesarean section in second stage of labour for various indications. Result(s): It was found that the women who underwent caesarean section in second stage of labour had a higher risk of maternal morbidity than those who underwent caesarean in first stage of labour The rate of intraoperative bleeding is>1000ml,uterineatony, longer duration of surgery,adhesions, fetalhypoxia, neonatal admissions toNICU, neonatal sepsis and early neonatal death were more common in second stage of labour as compared to first stage. Conclusion(s): In conclusion, Present study suggests that women undergoing c-section in second stage of labour have increased chance of Uterineatony, rate of excessive bleeding, postoperative fever, wound infection, fetal hypoxia compared to first stage of labour and therefore require special care and should be handled and operated by experienced obstetricians' The rate of complications can be avoided by proper antenatal care, proper usage of partograph, pelvic assessment in early labour and timely intervention.Copyright © 2022 Ubiquity Press. All rights reserved.	2022	Gunakala, K.;Rekha Rao, P.M.;Vennela, M.;Harika, P.	European Journal of Molecular and Clinical Medicine	
Use Of Obstetric Early Warning Score In Critically Ill Patients For Prediction Of Maternal Death	Objective: To assess the performance of Early Warning Obstetric Score in predicting maternal death among obstetric patients who required admission in ICU. Method(s): Prospective observational study on patients admitted in ICU. Information regarding sociodemographic variable and gestational age was gathered at the time of admission. Detailed clinical history regarding mode of presentation, clinical features, duration of symptoms etc. were obtained and entered in questionnaire. Further, patients were subjected to detailed clinical and general examination. Also, diagnosis upon admission and duration of stay in the ICU were noted and entered in questionnaire. The need for critical care interventions such as mechanical ventilator support, requirement of drugs if any was determined. Result(s): Majority of patients belonged to age group 21-30 years (46.5%) .Most of them belonged to rural areas (67.1%) and to lower socioeconomic status ( 73.1%) .Majority of patients were referred 60% and only 0.5% were booked at our hospital .Majority of patients were primiprous (60.6%) and majority underwent LSCS (50.85%). OEWS was significantly higher in non survivors (>4 trigger in 86% of non survivors; p value<0.05. OEWS was significantly lower in patients who do not require any ventilatory or vasoactive support. Length of ICU was significantly greater in patient with higher trigger score. Conclusion(s): Delay in identification of complications during pregnancy is associated with higher odds of maternal mortality. Therefore, Early Warning System (EWS) have been proposed as a promising tool which may help in early identification of warning signs in pregnant female. This may aid in initiating rapid medical response and reducing maternal morbidity as well as mortality.Copyright © 2022, Dr Yashwant Research Labs Pvt Ltd. All rights reserved.	2022	Kumar, A.;Fathima, F.;Soni, S.;Agarwal, A.	International Journal of Pharmaceutical and Clinical Research	
Evaluation Of Bone Mineral Density In Children Conceived Via Assisted Reproductive Technology	Objectives: To investigate bone mineral density (BMD) differences between assisted reproductive technology (ART)-conceived children and naturally conceived (NC) children. Study Design: This retrospective cohort study included ART-conceived children and controls aged 1 to 12 years assessed with a follow-up protocol. Maternal and paternal background, birth condition, and growth and development indicators were analyzed. Result(s): The ART and NC groups exhibited differences in maternal and paternal childbearing age; maternal weight; maternal body mass index (BMI); maternal alcohol consumption; paternal smoking; delivery method; and serum zinc, iron, and lead levels. Multifactor analysis adjusted for relevant factors showed that paternal childbearing age and group significantly affected the BMD Z score. In the subgroup analysis, in vitro fertilization (IVF) (p=0.026) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) (p=0.008) had a positive impact on the BMD Z score. Male infertility only (p=0.010) or male infertility combined with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) (p=0.026) may affect the BMD Z score. In the embryo transfer cycle subgroup analysis, compared with natural conception, both stimulation cycle fresh embryo transfer (p=0.019) and natural cycle frozen embryo transfer (p=0.006) had a positive effect on the BMD Z score. Conclusion(s): The BMD levels of the ART and control groups were generally in the normal range. Paternal childbearing age and the use of ART independently affected the BMD Z score of the offspring.Copyright © 2022 Xia, Chen, Wang, Yu, Gao, Zhang, Diao, Cui, Liu and Meng.	2022	Xia, X.;Chen, L.;Wang, J.;Yu, X.;Gao, L.;Zhang, Y.;Diao, F.;Cui, Y.;Liu, J.;Meng, Y.	Frontiers in Endocrinology	10.3389/fendo.2022.827978
A Case-Control Study On The Severity Postpartum Depression Among Covid19 Positive Mother	Background: COVID19 pandemic has caused a variety of psychological problems including panic disorder, anxiety and depression. It is also associated with adverse psychological outcomes in pregnant women. The aim of this study was to compare the severity of postpartum depression in pregnant women with and without COVID-19 during the coronavirus epidemic. Method(s): This case-control study was performed on 102 pregnant women referred to the hospitals of (XXX). Using questionnaire, consisting of demographic and maternal data (age, number of pregnancies, type of delivery, history of any disease, history of drug use, breastfeeding experience, separation of mother from infant due to coronavirus) and score from Edinburgh postnatal depression scale (EPDS) score data from all the participants obtained and analyzed statistically using SPSSv23. Result(s): The results showed that the mean EPDS score in COVID-positive mothers was 26.64 and in COVID-negative mothers was 24.76, which was statistically significant, p < 0.001. The score did not vary among the two group with respect to age group and type of delivery method. The score was significantly higher among the women with 3-4 pregnancies. Conclusion(s): COVID-positive status is associated with increased postnatal depression among women. Perinatal and postnatal psychological consultancy is required in such patients along with monitoring of maternal and neonate physical and mental health.Copyright © 2021 The Authors	2022	Araiana, S.;Hosseini, M.S.;Khademi, M.;Kazemi, S.N.;Ghaffari, E.;Falahatie, M.;Shahmirzadi, S.A.;Hosseini, A.	Annals of Medicine and Surgery	10.1016/j.amsu.2021.103223
Infants Of Hypothyroid Mothers At Risk Of Developing Hypothyroidism: A Cross-Sectional Study In Qassim Region Of Saudi Arabia	BACKGROUND: Hypothyroidism is one of the most prevalent endocrine disorders in women of childbearing age. If it goes untreated, can seriously affect maternal and fetal outcomes. AIM: This study aimed to assess the prevalence of hypothyroidism in infants born to hypothyroid mothers and to analyze associated fetal complications. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: This is a quantitative cross-sectional study conducted among pregnant mothers at Al Qassim region, Saudi Arabia. Data of pregnant women with clinical hypothyroidism during the past 5 years 2015-2019 were obtained from visiting records of Endocrine Clinic in Qassim University. These participants were contacted and written informed consents were obtained from the participants after a brief introduction of the study. A comprehensive survey questionnaire was used to collect information about demographic and study variables. RESULT(S): 153 mothers were enrolled. Complications during pregnancy were detected among 47.1% of mothers. The most common complication during pregnancy was C-section (26.8%). The prevalence of infants with hypothyroidism was 2.6%, whereas the prevalence of newborn babies with temporary/permanent hypothyroidism was 4.6%. Decreased activity (7.8%) and an increased in weight (5.2%) were the most common symptoms of a child at the time of diagnosis. Statistical test revealed that complication at pregnancy was wide prevalent among mothers who had incidence of miscarriage and with 1-3 children. CONCLUSION(S): Infants with hypothyroidism were not widely prevalent in this study. Cesarean delivery, gestational diabetes, and anemia were some of the most common maternal complications during pregnancy.Copyright © 2021 Mariam S. Alharbi.	2021	Alharbi, M.S.	Open Access Macedonian Journal of Medical Sciences	10.3889/oamjms.2021.7370
Pilot Study Of Lower Uterine Segment Cesarean Scar Thickness Preoperatively By Transvaginal Sonography And Its Correlation With Intra-Operative Findings	Objectives: Cesarean section rates are increasing with a decrease in the rate of trial of labor after first cesarean section. Proper assessment of uterus especially scar of the previous lower segment cesarean sections (LSCS) in pregnant females is the key stone for the successful vaginal birth after cesarean section. The objective of this pilot study was to evaluate LSCS scar thickness using transvaginal sonography (TVS) and to determine the correlation between TVS and intraoperatively measured lower uterine segment cesarean scar thickness. Method(s): This prospective observational analytic pilot study was carried out jointly by the Departments of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Radiodiagnosis, Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital, Patiala after due ethical and research committee approval. 100 women at term with history of previous LSCS and who were scheduled for elective LSCS were recruited for the study after taking the informed consent. Pre-operative scar measurement as on TVS was compared with and analyzed with intraoperative (I/o) scar measurements taken by Calipers. Result(s): The cutoff value for TVS readings was found to be <=2.5 mm using receiver operating characteristic analysis. It has significant correlation with I/o scar measurements. It also has a significant relationship with age, pre-pregnancy overweight, number of the previous LSCS, and gestational age. Conclusion(s): Assessment of the scar integrity and quality by TVS will be helpful in selecting candidates for trial of labor with an optimally informed decision but still a number of studies have to be done to develop a robust scoring system.Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Innovare Academic Sciences Pvt Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.22159/ajpcr.2021v14i9.42491. Journal homepage: https://innovareacademics.in/journals/index.php/ajpcr	2021	Kaur, N.;Mohi, M.;Kaur, S.;Gupta, S.	Asian Journal of Pharmaceutical and Clinical Research	10.22159/ajpcr.2021v14i9.42491
Prevalence Of Gestational Hypertension And Pregnancy Outcome	Introduction Hypertension during pregnancy is considered as one the high risk as it is one of the cause for maternal and neonatal mortality and morbidity. Aim(s): This study is aimed to find the prevalence of gestational hypertension and to understand the pregnancy outcome. Settings and Design: Study conducted at tertiary care hospital and descriptive research design was used for the study Methods and Material: Sample size was 366 women with gestational hypertension were included. Data was collected by using investigator prepared self-administered questionnaire Statistical analysis used: inferential statistics analytical methods Results: Results revealed that prevalence of gestational hypertension 9.8%. Maternal outcome 53% delivered at 34 to 38 weeks, mode of delivery (52.5%) were delivered by C-section, 56.3% women were induced, 97.3% were singleton pregnancy, About the gender of new-born 51.9% were male, 67.2% were born with Normal (>2500g) weight, NICU admission 20.5% and reason for NICU admission was prematurity. Conclusion(s): The knowledge of risk factors for gestational hypertension in pregnancy may give tracks for prevention in this population.Copyright © 2021, Institute of Medico-Legal Publications. All rights reserved.	2021	Bhat, A.V.;Kharde, S.N.	Indian Journal of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology	10.37506/ijfmt.v15i3.15721
Effect Of Balloon Bionic Midwifery Combined With Epidural Ropivacaine And Dexmedetomidine On Labor Analgesia And Postpartum Hemorrhage In Primiparas	Introduction: The purpose was to explore the effect of balloon bionic midwifery combined with epidural anaesthesia (ropivacaine and dexmedetomidine) on labor analgesia and postpartum hemorrhage in primiparas. Method(s): 120 primiparas admitted to our hospital from January 2019 to January 2020 were selected as the research objects, and were equally divided into group A (n = 60) and group B (n = 60) according to the order of admission. After both groups were given epidural anaesthesia with ropivacaine and dexmedetomidine, group A received balloon bionic midwifery while group B received routine treatment to compare the labor analgesia and postpartum hemorrhage between the two groups. Result(s): The pain score in group A after analgesia was significantly lower than that in group B, while the sedation score was significantly higher than that in group B (P < 0.001). The incidence of adverse events in group A was significantly lower than that in group B (P < 0.05). The labor time in group A was significantly shorter than that in group B (P < 0.001). Except for parturients with cesarean section, the amount of postpartum hemorrhage in group A was significantly lower than that in group B, and the number of parturients with postpartum hemorrhage >=400ml was significantly lower than that in group B (P < 0.05). Conclusion(s): Balloon bionic midwifery combined with epidural ropivacaine and dexmedetomidine can achieve good sedation and analgesia effect, with shorter duration of labor and less postpartum hemorrhage, which should be widely applied in clinical practice.Copyright © 2021 A. CARBONE Editore. All rights reserved.	2021	Chen, X.;Liu, H.;Shi, M.;Zhang, Z.	Acta Medica Mediterranea	10.19193/0393-6384_2021_3_289
The Ultrasound Of Subcutaneous Extrapelvic Endometriosis	Background: The presence of ectopic functional endometrial glands and struma anywhere except in the lining of the uterine cavity is considered as endometriosis. Extrapelvic endome-triosis involving the abdominal wall cesarean section scar is uncommonly seen, and it rarely involves the perineum, umbilicus, pleura, kidneys, lungs and liver. Objective(s): The purpose of the present study is to highlight rare ectopic sites, explain the pathogenesis of extrapel-vic endometriosis, and evaluate the diagnostic significance of clinical findings, serum CA 125 level, and ultrasonography. Material(s) and Method(s): 24 female patients with extrapelvic endometriomas in whom the final diagnosis was based on the surgical results and histo-pathological reports of the excised specimens. The patients underwent a clinical examination, an ultrasound scan, and evaluation of the serum CA 125 level. They were also examined by transvaginal ultrasound to rule out ovarian endometriosis or uterine adenomyosis. They were further subjected to abdominal wall ultrasound in cases of cesarean section scar or umbilical region swellings, and transperineal ultrasound for perianal lesions. Transvaginal ultrasound was performed in patients with perineal endometrioma to assess the relation between the lesion and the external anal sphincter. Result(s): In 19 patients, abdominal wall cesarean section scar endometrioma was detected. Three patients had perianal endometriomas, and two patients - umbilical endometriomas. Conclusion(s): Ultrasound scanning was a useful diagnostic tool to evaluate extrapelvic endometriosis and its extension, especially in cases without typical clinical features that can be suggestive of endometrioma, low diagnostic sensitivity of serum CA 125, and low incidence of concomitant intrapelvic disease.Copyright © Polish Ultrasound Society. Published by Medical Communications Sp. z o.o.	2020	Youssef, A.T.	Journal of Ultrasonography	10.15557/JoU.2020.0029
Spontaneous Versus Medical Induction Of Labour In Previous One Cesarean Term Patients: A Prospective Analytical Study	Introduction: The rate of Cesarean Section (CS) either primary or repeat has significantly increased worldwide over the time. Trial Of Labour After Cesarean (TOLAC) is an important strategy to limit the number of repeat CS. TOLAC either spontaneous or induced offers both benefits and risks to the mother and neonate. Aim(s): To determine the risks and benefits of inducing labour with Prostaglandin Gel (PGE2) in women with previous one CS and to compare it with patients who developed spontaneous labour in terms of fetal and maternal outcome. Material(s) and Method(s): A prospective interventional study was conducted over a period of one year from June 2017 to May 2018. A total of 322 pregnant patients with previous one CS who fulfill the eligibility criteria for TOLAC were enrolled and divided into two groups. Of these 74 patients were induced with PGE2 gel (study group) and 248 experienced spontaneous labour. Data were analysed via Chi-square test and unpaired t-test using analytical tool pack of Microsoft excel (version-10.0)-2010 home edition. Result(s): In study group and control group, 51 (68.9%) and 191 (77.01%) women respectively delivered vaginally either spontaneous or assisted, but the difference was not statistically significant. Two cases in the study group had laparotomy for uterine rupture with favourable feto-maternal outcome. Vaginal Birth After Caesarean (VBAC) rate was significantly more in women who had history of prior vaginal delivery (p=0.0024). TOLAC was successful in 242 women while CS was done in 80 women. Mean BMI in women with successful TOLAC was significantly lower than in women with unsuccessful TOLAC (23.42+/-2.07 versus 26.08+/-3.07, p=0.0001). With an inter-pregnancy interval of 25-36 months, 45.1% in study group and 47.6% in control group delivered vaginally. Conclusion(s): For women with previous one CS, TOLAC is a reasonable option as compared to planned repeat Cesarean. In these women with continuous supervision, PGE2 is as safe and effective as spontaneous labour in achieving vaginal birth after Cesarean.Copyright © 2020 Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic Research. All rights reserved.	2020	Mittal, N.;Shree, P.;Swaroop, N.;Vishwakarma, S.	Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic Research	10.7860/JCDR/2020/45490.14205
The Association Of High Birth Weight With Pregnancy Outcomes: A Longitudinal Study	To explore the adverse perinatal results associated with high birth weight (HBW) and analyse other risk factors associated with these events. This was a retrospective longitudinal study of all childbirths occurring in our maternity centre during the period of 2010-2016. A comparative analysis was performed between pregnancy outcomes of newborns with weights above the 95th percentile and newborns with normal weight. In addition, a multivariate logistic regression analysis was performed to evaluate the risk factors associated with the identified adverse perinatal events. The perinatal results of 31,576 deliveries were analysed. When the two groups were compared, the group of pregnancies with HBW newborns showed higher frequencies of maternal diabetes, induction of labour, stalled labour caesarean section, severe perineal tears, and type 3 or greater neonatal resuscitation and a higher maternal age (p ' 0.05). The multivariate regression analysis identified HBW as an important risk factor for stalled labour caesarean section and severe perineal tears, with odds ratios (ORs) of 3.6 (95% confidence interval (CI), 3.08-4.2) and 2.06 (95% CI, 1.33-3.19), respectively. Other risk factors such as induction of labour, gestational diabetes and instrument-assisted delivery (p ' 0.001) were identified. Deliveries of newborns with weights above the 95th percentile presented poorer perinatal results compared to deliveries of normal weight newborns. This study identified additional relevant risk factors associated with stalled labour caesarean section and severe perineal tears. These findings could be useful to provide adequate advice to pregnant women.Copyright © 2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.	2020	Amor Valera, F.;Bernal Claverol, M.;Garcia-Tizon Larroca, S.	SN Comprehensive Clinical Medicine	10.1007/s42399-020-00463-1
Risk Factors Associated With Initiation Of Breastfeeding Among Mothers With Low Birth Weight Babies: A Cross-Sectional Multicenter Study In Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates	BACKGROUND: Early initiation of breastfeeding is important for good lactation outcomes and has long been recommended by the World Health Organization. Recommendations are based on research showing that breastfeeding saves children's lives, particularly among vulnerable populations such as low birth weight (LBW) neonates. In spite of a consistent rise in LBW deliveries, and in spite of the importance of breastfeeding for the survival of LBW neonates, a dearth of research exists regarding early initiation of breastfeeding for this population. AIM: The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence of, and factors associated with the initiation of breastfeeding among mothers with children aged <2 years who were LBW in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (UAE). METHOD(S): The data for this cross-sectional study were extracted from a larger project on the evaluation of breastfeeding practices in Abu Dhabi. The original data were collected from seven health-care centers located in different urban and suburban areas of Abu Dhabi during 2017. A structured questionnaire was used by trained research assistants who collected relevant data from mothers during the interview. RESULT(S): The study included a total of 1822 mothers of children below the age of 2 years; 175 (9.6%) of those children were identified as LBW. The mean standard deviation [SD] ages of the mothers and the children were 30.5 (5.0) years and 6.0 (5.1) months, respectively. The mean birth weight (SD) of the LBW children was 2079.6 (255.0) grams. Forty (29.9%) mothers of LBW children initiated breastfeeding within the 1st h. Sixty-four (47.8%) were delivered vaginally, and 70 (52.2%) were delivered through cesarean section (CS). In multivariable logistic regression analysis, the only factor associated with delayed initiation of breastfeeding among the LBW children was CS (adjusted odds ratio 2.33; 95% confidence interval 1.07, 5.07). CONCLUSION(S): The prevalence of LBW was 9.6%, and it was associated with delayed initiation of breastfeeding as compared to the normal birth weight babies. While early initiation of breastfeeding should be promoted for all newborns, LBW infants are recognized as a vulnerable group and thus require additional support. There should be more emphasis on promoting and facilitating breastfeeding for LBW babies, especially those delivered by CS.Copyright © 2020 Zainab Taha, Ahmed Ali Hassan, Ludmilla Wikkeling-Scott, Dimitrios Papandreou.	2020	Taha, Z.;Hassan, A.A.;Wikkeling-Scott, L.;Papandreou, D.	Open Access Macedonian Journal of Medical Sciences	10.3889/oamjms.2020.3867
Comparison Of Extra-Peritoneal And Intra-Peritoneal Cesarean Technique: A Prospective Randomised Trial	Objective: Comparison of extra-peritoneal cesarean (EPC) and intra-peritoneal cesarean (IPC) section in terms of postoperative pain, pulmonary function, fever, gastrointestinal function, and other maternal and fetal morbidities. Material(s) and Method(s): Fifty patients were included in this prospective study. All patients' demographic data such as blood count, gestational week, height, weight, body mass index, and age were recorded in the preoperative period. Forced vital capacity, forced expiratory volume at second 1, and peak expiratory flow values were measured before and 24 hours after the operation. Pain was evaluated using visual analog scale (VAS). Time from the beginning of the operation to the delivery, total operation time, birth weight, and Apgar scores were also recorded. Changes in pulmonary function tests, VAS, time to hear bowel sounds, gas and stool discharge times, leukocyte increase rate, fever, and C-reactive protein values were compared between the groups. Result(s): Lower abdominal and incision pain were less in the EPC group (p < 0.05). Inflammatory response was lower and bowel sound were heard earlier in the EPC group (p < 0.05). Conclusion(s): EPC section seems to be advantageous in terms of postoperative pain, pulmonary function, intestinal function, and febrile morbidity. Further studies with larger populations are needed in order to recommend this technique routinely.Copyright © 2018 S.O.G. CANADA Inc. All rights reserved.	2018	Senturk, M.B.;Kilicci, C.;Dogan, O.;Yenidede, I.;Polat, M.;Pulatoglu, C.;Eser, A.;Yilmaz, B.K.	Clinical and Experimental Obstetrics and Gynecology	10.12891/ceog4403.2018
Predictors Of Feeding Achievement In Neonates Born From Preeclampsia Mothers	The aim of this study is to observe maternal and neonates predictive factors for succesfull feeding. Feeding intolerances were associated with many factors, such aspremature baby, sepsis, and necrotizing enterocolitis. Feeding achievement is important to achieve adequate nutrition. Other factors that influence successful feeding will be assessed in this study. This is a cross sectional study using secondary data obtained from medical records of 72 subject from mothers and neonates, recruited with consecutive sampling. This study performed in Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital, mother who developed preeclampsia, or complication from preeclampsia with neonates 28-37 weeks gestational age. Univariate, bivariate, and multivariate analyses were perfomed in this study. The results showed that a large proportion of the babies were born from mothers aged 31-35 years old, giving birth through sectio caesaria delivery, and having severe preeclampsia, and non hypoxic SDAU. Most of the babies born at gestational age >= 32 weeks and females. The most of the babies born with a birth weight of 1,000-1,500 grams and 1,501-2,000 grams weeks were not different, the most babies not IUGR, being assissted with CPAP, having an APGAR score >= 7 at 5th minute. Multivariate analyses revealed the gestational age and clinical symptoms were predictor factors for successful feeding in neonates. Neonates successful feeding in median 9.5 days range from 3.5 to 15.5 days. The conclusion in this study were the predictor factors for successful feeding in neonates were gestational age more than 32 weeks and the absence of clinical symptoms.Copyright © Global Science Publications.	2019	Susianti, Y.;Amir, I.;Rohsiswatmo, R.	Asian Journal of Microbiology, Biotechnology and Environmental Sciences	
Association Between Mode Of Delivery And Body Mass Index In A Cohort Of Iraqi Pregnant Ladies: Cross Sectional Study	In the United States the prevalence rate of obesity in women during reproductive age has been estimated to be about one third. Aim of the study: To study the association between body mass index and mode of delivery in full term pregnant Iraqi women. The current cross sectional study 50 term pregnant ladies. The study was conducted at this hospital located in the center of Al-Diwaniyah province, Mid-Euphrates region, Iraq. The study started on January 2018 and ended at January 2019. Data about maternal age, parity, occupation and residency were obtained from each participant in addition to measurement of weight and height to evaluate body mass index (BMI). Women according to mode of delivery were distributed into 32 (64 %) with normal vaginal delivery (NVD) and 18 (36 %) with cesarean section (CS). Women delivered with CS had significantly higher BMI than women delivered by NVD, 28.28 +/-6.45 kg/m2 versus 24.44 +/-3.44 kg/m2, respectively and the level of significance was (P = 0.008). The rate of cesarean section was significantly higher in obese women followed by overweight women and finally by normal weight women, 75 %, 29.4 % and 28 %, respectively (P = 0.043).Copyright © 2019, Indian Journal of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology. All rights reserved.	2019	Hasan, N.N.	Indian Journal of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology	10.5958/0973-9130.2019.00462.6
Comparison Of Cesarean Section And Normal Vaginal Delivery Using Entonox Inhalation In Terms Of Oxidative Stress Indices In Newborns And Mothers	Objectives: Introduction: Review of articles point out that the route of delivery may cause oxidative stress. Since management of labor is of great importance for healthy childbearing, the present study was performed to compare cesarean section (CS) and normal vaginal delivery (NVD) through Entonox inhalation in terms of oxidative stress indices in mode of delivery. Material(s) and Method(s): Sixty women undergoing CS and 60 women undergoing painless labor using Entonox gas were included in the study after obtaining a written informed consent. Three tests including lipid peroxidation, total thiol molecules (TTMs), and ferric reducing ability of plasma (FRAP) assay were performed. To this end, venous blood samples (5 mL) were obtained from the mothers at the end of the second stage of labor or after surgery. The same indices were measured for 5 mL of blood sample taken from the umbilical artery of the infants. Descriptive (means) and analytical (independent t test) tests were employed for data analysis. Result(s): Mean maternal lipid peroxidation level in the CS and Entonox groups were 5.798 +/- 4.210 and 5.105 +/- 2.892 nmol/mm, respectively (P = 0.544). TTMs were 0.2846 +/- 0.2632 and 0.2656 +/- 0.2437 mmol/mm in the CS and Entonox groups (P = 0.687). Moreover, mean scores of FRAP were 0.766 +/- 0.516 and 1.057 +/- 0.626 nmol/mm in the CS and Entonox groups, respectively (P = 0.007). However, oxidative stress indices of the infants were not different between 2 groups (P > 0.05). Conclusion(s): Since total antioxidant capacity in the CS group was lower compared to the Entonox group, it seems that maternal antioxidant defense decreases. Thus, Entonox can be used safely from the perspective of oxidative stress indices.Copyright © 2018 The Author (s).	2018	Vakilian, K.;Ranjbar, A.	International Journal of Women's Health and Reproduction Sciences	10.15296/ijwhr.2018.13
Menstrual Pattern Following Tubal Ligation: A Historical Cohort Study	Background: Tubal ligation (TL) is recommended for women who have completed their family planning. The existence of the menstrual disorders following this procedure has been the subject of debate for decades. This study was conducted to identify the relationship between tubal ligation and menstrual disorders. Material(s) and Method(s): A historical cohort study was carried out on 140 women undergoing tubal ligation (TL group) and on 140 women using condom as the main contraceptive method (Non-TL group). They aged between 20 and 40 years and were selected from a health care center in Rudsar, Guilan Province, Iran, during 2013-2014. The two groups were comparable in demographic characteristics, obstetrical features and menstrual bleeding pattern using a routine questionnaire. A validated pictorial blood loss assessment chart (PBLAC) was also used to measure the menstrual blood loss. Result(s): Women with TL had more menstrual irregularity than those without TL (24.3 vs. 10%, P=0.002). Women with TL had more polymenorrhea (9.3 vs. 1.4%, P=0.006), hypermenorrhea (12.1 vs. 2.1%, P=0.002), menorrhagia (62.9 vs. 22.1%, P<0.0001) and menometrorrhagia (15.7 vs. 3.6%, P=0.001) than those without TL. There is a significant difference in the PBLAC score between women with and without TL (P<0.0001). According to logistic regression, age odds ratio [(OR=1.08, confidence interval (CI):1.07-1.17, P=0.03)], TL (OR=5.95, CI:3.45-10.26, P<0.0001) and cesarean section (OR=2.72, CI:1.49-4.97, P=0.001) were significantly associated with menorrhagia. Conclusion(s): We found significant differences in menstrual disorders between women with and without TL. Therefore, women should be informed by the health providers regarding the advantages and disadvantages of TL before the procedures.Copyright © 2015, Royan Institute (ACECR). All rights reserved.	2016	Jahanian Sadatmahalleh, S.;Ziaei, S.;Kazemnejad, A.;Mohamadi, E.	International Journal of Fertility and Sterility	
Delivery And Pregnancy Outcome In Women With Bowel Resection For Deep Endometriosis: A Retrospective Cohort Study	Endometriosis affects women in reproductive age and can involve bowel in 6-12 % of the patients. In case of bowel occlusion or deep pain, radical laparoscopic endometriosic surgery associated with bowel resection is recommended. The purpose of this study was to analyze the conception rate, the obstetric complications, and the pregnancy outcome. This is a retrospective study; we investigated 51 patients with deep endometriosis who underwent surgical treatment with bowel resection during the period between 2000 and 2007. Among the 30 patients who gave birth to at least one live child after surgery, we considered only the first pregnancy following bowel resection and we investigated the incidence of pregnancy disorders, the gestational age at delivery, the baby birth weight, and the complications related to the different ways of delivery. We compared the results with a control group of 93 patients with no previous abdominal surgery. The whole group of 51 patients tried to conceive after surgery, and 30 women had at least one pregnancy with the birth of an alive baby. Considering only the first pregnancies after surgery, 6 (20 %) experienced gestational hypertensive disorders, 3 (10 %) had placenta previa, 6 (20 %) had preterm birth (<37 weeks), and 1 patient (3.3 %) gestational diabetes. In this group, the average newborn weight was 3000 +/- 545 g. Compared with the control group, women with previous bowel resection for deep endometriosis had a higher risk of hypertensive disorders (p < 0.05), placenta previa (p < 0.05), and lower newborn weight (p < 0.05), while the association with preterm birth and gestational diabetes was not statistically significant. These patients experience 12 vaginal deliveries (40 %) and 18 caesarean sections (60 %). Comparing with the caesarean rate in the control group (29.03 %), the incidence of caesarean section in the study population was substantially higher (p < 0.01) with 33.3 % of the sections performed because of previous bowel surgery. No differences in severe complication rates were observed between vaginal and caesarean deliveries (ns). Complete removal of endometriosis with bowel segmental resection seems to improve the pregnancy rate, but in this group, there is an increased incidence of hypertensive disorders, placenta previa, and lower newborn weight. Despite the small number of patients, we do not observe more complications in the vaginal group than in the caesarean group, so we hypothesize the previous radical surgery should not influence the way of delivery.Copyright © 2015, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.	2015	Baggio, S.;Pomini, P.;Zecchin, A.;Garzon, S.;Bonin, C.;Santi, L.;Festi, A.;Franchi, M.P.	Gynecological Surgery	10.1007/s10397-015-0901-9
Prevalence Of Depression In Children With Asthma	Background: Asthma has high prevalence in children (7-10%). Many psychiatric factors including personality traits, psychiatric diseases, family environment and demographic characteristics such as age and gender can influence treatment success. Children with moderate to severe asthma have more psychiatric, social and physical problems. Objective(s): The current study aimed to evaluate the psychiatric features and correlation of demographic features in children with asthma for their better treatment. Material(s) and Method(s): The current study was observational and cross-sectional with completion of General Health Questionnaire - 28 (GHQ-28) and Demographic Information Questionnaire. The population constituted 177 subjects. The samples were selected by accessible method. Data were analyzed by SPSS-16 (Statistical Package for Social Science), and correlation between the variables was investigated through T and Chi-Square tests. Result(s): The mean age of participants was 10 +/- 4 years (66% girls and 34% boys). The incidence of depression was found to be 45%, which occurred in 64.5% of the boys and 35.5% of the girls. Among the children`s parents with psychiatric disturbance 2.6% smoked cigarettes, and 53.9% and 46.1% of the children with depression were born naturally by cesarean, respectively. Significant correlation existed between questionnaire score, social interaction, weight, and height of children (P > 0.05). Significant correlation was found between social interaction and gender (P = 0.023). Conclusion(s): Despite high incidence of depression among hospitalized children with asthma, and correlation of some demographic variables, it is recommended that they are evaluated for psychiatric status and treatment along with treating their asthma. Serious psychological problems as well as recommended treatment for patients with asthma should be considered.	2014	Safa, M.;Mehrian, P.;Zad, M.H.	Journal of Comprehensive Pediatrics	10.17795/compreped-17327
The Comparison Of Serum Interleukin-6 Of Mothers In Vaginal And Elective Cesarean Delivery	Background: Interleukin-6 (IL-6) has a major role in hematopoiesis, immune and acute phase response and seemed that it had influence on the mode of delivery. The purpose of this study was to compare the level of IL-6 in mothers who delivered via cesarean section and vaginally. Method(s): This cross-sectional study was done on 40 mothers with vaginal delivery and 40 mothers in elective cesarean delivery in 2012 in Ayatollah Rouhani Teaching Hospital in Babol, northern Iran. Five ml blood samples were taken from each mother. Blood samples were examined by enzyme-immune assay for the determination of IL-6 in both neonates. Other information, such as the mother's age, the newborn sex, gravity, parity, the number of live births of each mother, and the status of infants in terms of being term or pre-term, was recorded. Result(s): The mean age of cesarean section and vaginal delivery patients was (29+/-5.01) yrs and (27.3+/- 4.93) yrs. The maternal IL-6 concentration in vaginal birth (170.13 +/-15.9) was significantly (p<0.05( higher than cesarean section (33+/-29.94) Conclusion(s): The result shows that serum IL-6 levels in patients with vaginal delivery was higher than those with elective cesarean section delivery. So, we recommend that vaginal delivery should be performed for all patients except for those whom vaginal delivery is contraindicated contraindicated.	2014	Mojaveri, M.H.;Mohammadzadeh, I.;Bouzari, Z.A.-S.;Rad, Z.A.;Haddad, G.;Alizadeh-Navaei, R.	Caspian Journal of Internal Medicine	
Presenting Features Of Idiopathic Versus Secondary Restless Legs Syndrome In Pregnancy	Background: Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is the most common movement disorder in pregnancy, which can be idiopathic or secondary. There are limited comparative data regarding these two forms of RLS. The aim of this study was to compare clinical features of idiopathic and secondary RLS in pregnant women. Method(s): Over a period of 3 months, 443 women who admitted for delivery in two clinical centers were screened for RLS using four diagnostic criteria of the international RLS study group. A total of 79 subjects diagnosed with RLS were consecutively enrolled in the present study. All of them were interviewed for medical history and complaints during pregnancy and responded to self-administer international RLS rating scale. Result(s): Ten subjects (12.9%) out of 79 pregnant women with RLS had idiopathic form, and their mean age was significantly higher than patients with secondary RLS (30.6 +/- 7.3 years vs. 26.4 +/- 4.6 years, P = 0.0260). Compared with women with secondary RLS, sleep duration in pregnancy was significantly decreased in idiopathic RLS group (P = 0.0460), whereas RLS severity score was similar in both groups. No significant difference was observed between the two groups in terms of other sleep complaints, the positive family history of RLS, parity, duration of pregnancy, or frequency of cesarean section (P > 0.0500). Conclusion(s): Idiopathic and secondary RLS have relatively similar courses and features during pregnancy. However, the idiopathic form may have more negative impact on sleep in pregnancy. Careful screening and effective treatment of idiopathic RLS before pregnancy is recommended to limit these disturbances.Copyright © 2014.	2014	Miri, S.;Rohani, M.;Vahdat, M.;Kashanian, M.;Sariri, E.;Zamani, B.;Shahidi, G.A.	Iranian Journal of Neurology	
The Impact Of Delivery Methods On The Delivery Outcomes Of Women With A Prolonged Second Stage And A Fetus In The Occipital Posterior Position	Background: The objective was to explore the impact of different delivery methods on maternal and infant outcomes in women with a prolonged second stage of labor and a fetus with a persistent occipital posterior position. Methods: 60 women with a fetus in the occipital posterior position who underwent obstetric low forceps-assisted delivery were selected as the study group according to the order of delivery, and 40 women who underwent cesarean section during the same period were selected as study group 1 according to the order of delivery. We compared the maternal-related indicators and neonatal outcome-related indicators of the two groups. Then, we selected women in chronological order during the same period to be included in control group 2 (60 primiparous women with a fetus in the occipital anterior position who underwent low forceps-assisted delivery during the same period) for comparison with the study group. Results: The time of fetal head delivery, postpartum hemorrhage rate, hospitalization time, average hospitalization cost, and number of cases of postpartum infection in the group with a fetus in the occipital posterior position and low forceps-assisted delivery were significantly lower than those in the cesarean section group (p < 0.05). There was no statistically significant difference in the 1-minute Apgar score, umbilical artery blood gas pH value, or number of neonatal injuries between the cesarean section group and the group with a fetus in the occipital posterior position with forceps-assisted delivery (p > 0.05). There were also no statistically significant differences in the complication-related indicators between the group with a fetus in the occipital posterior position with forceps-assisted delivery and the group with a fetus in the occipital anterior position with forceps-assisted delivery. The two groups had second-degree lacerations, cervical lacerations, vaginal wall lacerations, and vaginal wall hematomas. There was no statistically significant difference in the comparison of urinary retention (p > 0.05), and there was no statistically significant difference between the group with a fetus in the occipital posterior position and forceps-assisted delivery and the group with a fetus in the occipital anterior position and forceps-assisted delivery in the comparison of related indicators of neonatal outcomes and pelvic floor reexamination at the Aa and Ap points 42 days after delivery (p > 0.05). Conclusions: The use of low forceps for women with a prolonged second stage of labor and a fetus in a persistent occipital posterior position can effectively shorten the time of fetal head delivery, reduce postpartum bleeding, reduce the incidence of postpartum infection, shorten the hospitalization time, and reduce average hospitalization costs and does not increase adverse neonatal outcomes. Copyright: © 2024 The Author(s).	2024	Zhou, J.;Mao, S.;Zheng, Z.;Lin, C.;Tang, J.;Lin, J.;Ling, J.;Yang, L.;Jiang, Z.;Wu, D.	Clinical and Experimental Obstetrics and Gynecology	10.31083/j.ceog5104097
Do Delivery Mode And Anesthesia Management Alter Redox Setting In Neonates?	Objective Fetal-to-neonatal transition is accompanied by oxidative stress. The degree of oxidative damage may depend on several factors, such as delivery type and obstetric anesthesia type. The objective of the study was to determine if the delivery type and obstetric anesthesia type have an impact on oxidative stress levels in newborns. Material and methods A prospective study included 150 newborns divided into three groups: neonates delivered vaginally, via cesarean section in general anesthesia, and via cesarean section in spinal anesthesia. Levels of pH, PaO2, lactate, glutathione peroxidase, and thiobarbituric acid reactive substance were quantified and compared between groups. Results Vaginal delivery was followed by the highest lactate and thiobarbituric acid reactive substance levels and lowest pH, PaO2, and glutathione peroxidase levels. Higher values of thiobarbituric acid reactive substance, PaO2, and glutathione peroxidase and lower pH values were noted in neonates delivered in general anesthesia in comparison to neonates delivered in spinal anesthesia. Conclusions Neonates delivered in general anesthesia were most prone to oxidative stress, while neonates delivered in spinal anesthesia were least affected by reactive oxygen species. © 2023 Georg Thieme Verlag. All rights reserved.	2023	Rakić, G.;Dobrijević, D.;Uram-Benka, A.;Antić, J.;Uram-Dubovski, J.;Andrijević, L.;Drašković, B.	Zeitschrift fur Geburtshilfe und Neonatologie	10.1055/a-2057-6248
Mother'S Experience Of Planned Caesarean Section In The Absence Of The Father Or Companion: Impact Of Covid-19 Pandemic-Related Lockdown; [Vécu De L'Absence Du Père Ou De L'Accompagnant En Césarienne Programmée: Impact Du Confinement Lié À La Pandémie Covid-19]	Background: The presence of the father or companion during planned caesarean section presents several benefits. However, we found no study regarding the mother's experience of his presence or absence. Material and methods: We conducted an observational, prospective, two-centre study based on the data of women who had a planned caesarean section in Bel Air and Mercy Maternities between November 17th 2020 and June 4th 2021. Two groups were formed: a control group, including women who had a c-section in the presence of the father or companion, and a case group, including women who had a c-section without the father or companion due to Covid-19 pandemic-related containment measures. The primary endpoint was to assess the mother's anxiety regarding the presence or absence of the father or companion during planned c-section, by the use of a numerical scale of stress and STAI YA inventory. The secondary endpoint was the appraisal of information given by the medical team concerning c-section and the containment measures. Results: Regarding the level of stress during the c-section, we did not find a significant difference by the use of the numerical scale of stress. With a mean of 53 in the case group and 49 in the focus group (P = 0,048), the STAI YA scores showed a significant difference. Between the day before and the day of the c-section, we found no significant difference by the use of the numerical scale of stress. STAI YA scores showed a significant difference, with a delta of 5 in the case group against 1 in the focus group (P = 0,01). Most patients estimated that the information given by the medical team helped to reduce their stress. 93 % of the patients in the focus group reckoned they would have been more stressed in the absence of the father or companion. Discussion and conclusion: The significant results of this study suggest the absence of the father or companion during planned caesarean section has an impact on mother's experience. Therefore, this should be considered in order to better our practices and improve mother's experience. In the long term, we could imagine making their presence possible during emergency caesarean sections as well (general anesthesia excluded). We could also envision adding to preparation courses to c-section to birth preparation courses, for mothers (to reduce psychological impact) but also for fathers or companions (to allow their presence in the operation room). © 2022 Elsevier Masson SAS	2022	Heis, C.;Olieric, M.F.;Eszto, M.L.;Goetz, C.;Matuszewski, L.	Gynecologie Obstetrique Fertilite et Senologie	10.1016/j.gofs.2022.04.003
Epidemiological Characteristics Of Premature Infants Born At General Hospital Pula In A Five-Year-Period (2012-2016); [Epidemiološke Karakteristike Nedonoščadi Rođene U Općoj Bolnici Pula U Petogodišnjem Razdoblju (2012. – 2016.)]	Aim: To summarize our five-year experience in management of premature infants at our second level neonatal facility. Patients and methods: This prospective birth cohort study was performed at the Division of Neonatology (level 2), Department of Paediatrics, General hospital Pula during a five-year-period (January 1st 2012 – December 31st 2016). The study population included all live-born neonates born between 22nd and 37th gestational week. Results: During the above mentioned five-year-period, 289 premature infants were born at General Hospital Pula. One-hundred and sixty seven (58%) neonates were delivered vaginally and 122 (42%) were delivered by caesarean section. Nineteen (7%) neonates were born after in vitro fertilization. Infants were mostly male (N=167; 58%), and appropriate for gestational age (N=240; 83%). Also, the infants belonged mostly to the late-preterm group (N=245; 85%). Thirty-three premature infants (11%) were transferred to a tertiary paediatric centre and five neonates died (2%). The overall cost of hospital stay for hospitalized premature infants was 2,517,000 Croatian kunas (cost for one patient: median 4800, range 3,225-53,325); in euros, it was 335,600 (cost for one patient: median 640, range 430-7,110) respectively. The overall hospital stay was 10.01±8.30 days (median 8.00, range 1.00-67.00). Conclusion: Despite the great development of neonatal intensive care, the best prevention of complications related to prematurity is to prevent preterm labour. © 2021, Croatian Medical Association and School of Medicine. All rights reserved.	2021	Jašić, M.;Drašković, D.;Ahel, I.B.;Kraguljac, D.	Medicina Fluminensis	10.21860/medflum2021_371642
Society For Maternal-Fetal Medicine Consult Series #51	Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a major cause of maternal morbidity and mortality. The estimated incidence of VTE during pregnancy and the postpartum period is 1 to 2 per 1,000 deliveries.1 The risk of VTE is particularly high during the postpartum period and especially following cesarean delivery. There is considerable variation in the approach to VTE prophylaxis in preg-nancy, including following cesarean delivery. Recent guidelines by various profes-sional organizations provide conflicting recommendations based on low-grade evidence, mainly from observational data. At present, the available VTE risk strati-fication tools used to decide for or against pharmacological prophyla☓is have not been validated in women undergoing cesarean delivery. Individualization of care is recommended for women at very high risk of VTE. © 2020, UBM Medica Healthcare Publications. All rights reserved.	2020	Pacheco, L.D.;Saade, G.;Metz, O.D.	Contemporary Ob/Gyn	
A Clinical Study Of Hypernatremic Dehydration In Neonates At A Tertiary Care Hospital	Background: Hypernatremic dehydration is a serious condition occurring exclusively in neonates. The management is challeng-ing because rapid correction can lead to serious complications. Certain factors like the average environmental temperature play an important role in the frequency of cases detected. Aim: We in the present study tied to evaluate the frequency of hypernatremic dehydration in neonates presenting to our tertiary care hospital. Methods: This Prospective case-control study was conducted in the Department of Neonatology, Aditya Hospital, Hyderabad, from January 2017 to December 2017. A total of n=115 cases>36wks 6 days of gestation age and or 2.499Kg of birth weight, discharged by 36 hours in case of normal vaginal delivery and 72 hrs to 96 hours in lower section cesarean section. With features quite like that of sepsis, neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, but on investigations finally diagnosed and managed as hypernatremic dehydration without sepsis. A total of n=31 cases of hypernatremic dehydration were found out of total n=115 cases in the study. Results: Out of n=31 cases of hypernatremic dehydration, 61.29% were male and 38.7% were females. The average sodium levels throughout the year were estimated in cases with suspicion of dehydration. The sodium levels in the summer months were minimum 159.2 mEq/L and maximum values were 168.1 mEq/L and the average values were 160 mEq/L. Conclusion: The frequency of hypernatremic dehydration is very high in summer seasons in neonates. The typical features of presentation were weight loss, lethargy, hunger, and dehydration. The weight loss was significantly greater in the summer months. Management was done by slow rehydration as per protocol (IV Fluids). Early recognition and prompt treatment will prove beneficial in reducing morbidity and mortality. © IJCRR.	2020	Sandeep, S.	International Journal of Current Research and Review	10.31782/IJCRR.2020.121727
Side Effects Of Misoprostol Per Rectal For Treating Postpartum Hemorrhage In Vaginal Delivery Versus Cesarean Section: What Do We Know So Far?; [Efek Samping Misoprostol Per Rektal Untuk Pengobatan Perdarahan Pascasalin Pada Persalinan Normal Versus Seksio Sesarea: Apa Yang Sudah Kita Ketahui?]	Objective: To compare the incidence and profiles of misoprostol side effects given per rectal for treating postpartum haemorrhage in vaginal delivery versus cesarean section. Methods: A prospective observational study involving 40 women delivered by vaginal birth (VD) and 40 by Cesarean Section (CS) was undertaken in a gynecology ward of a hospital in West Java. The incidence of misoprostol's side effects was identified through patient observation and medical note review. The side effect probability was rated by the panellists of healthcare providers. Patient characteristics and side effect data were summarized descriptively. The incidence rates of misoprostol's side effect between the two groups were compared using Z-test. Results: Thirty-four patients (85.0%) in the VD group experienced side effects, whilst all CS patients reported at least one side effect. There was no significant difference in the proportion of patients having side effects in the two groups (p=0.366). There were 135 and 164 side effects in the VD group and CS group, respectively. There was no discernible difference in side effect profile between the two groups. Gastrointestinal side effects accounted for the most frequent side effects. Regarding the side effect probability, the panellists rated all side effects in VD patients as probable. Meanwhile, around70% of side effects in CS patients were regarded as probable leaving the remaining as definite. Conclusions: High incidence of misoprostol's side effects was documented both in VD and CS patients. The incidence rates and side effect profile between the two delivery modes were quite similar. © 2020 Indonesian Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology. All rights reserved.	2020	Nasution, N.;Ramadaniati, H.;Syamsudi,n;Nor, A.	Indonesian Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology	10.32771/inajog.v8i2.1051
Apgar Score – The Most Accurate Indicator For The Risk Of Neonatal Infection, Correlated With The Number Of Days Of Hospitalization And Parity	Introduction. Infections in newborns are a widely studied topic worldwide. Neonatal infections are of two types: those with early onset, acquired from microorganisms from the female genital tract or peripartum and those with late onset, which appeared as a result of invasive procedures, due to nosocomial or invasive germs peri-or postpartum. Objectives. The aim of the study was to identify predictors of early-onset neonatal infections. Material and methods. We conducted a prospective study at the Neonatology Clinic within the County Clinical Hospital in Tg. Mures, Romania, between January 2017 and March 2019. Results. The study included 120 newborns, of which 15 (12.5%) had an APGAR score of 10 per 1 minute. At 5 minutes, 57 (47.5%) had an APGAR score of 10. Type of birth: 59 (49.2%) of the patients were born vaginally and 61 (50.8%) by cesarean section. The average of the gestational age was 39.04 weeks. The average weight at birth was 3,197.33 g, and at discharge was 3,126.12 g. The average length of the new-borns was 51.62 cm, and the average of the cranial perimeter was 33.48 cm. Most frequently, patients presented infectious pathologies, early neonatal (n = 40), frequently associated with the damage of the lung system. The average length of time spent in hospital was of 4 days, with an average of 6.15 days. The APGAR score at 1 minute and 5 minutes was statistically significantly correlated with the number of days of hospitalization and parity of the mother. Conclusions. The APGAR score at 1 minute and 5 minutes was the most accurate indicator for the risk of neonatal infection in our study. Its values correlated with the number of days of hospitalization. The number of hospitalization days was also correlated with parity. © 2020, Amaltea Medical Publishing House. All rights reserved.	2020	Cotoi, T.C.;Niculescu, R.;Sabau, A.-H.;Sincu, M.C.;Chiorean, D.;Suciu, L.M.;Muntean, D.L.	Romanian Journal of Infectious Diseases	10.37897/RJID.2020.2.9
A Comparison Of Complications In Previous Caesarean With Non Caesarean Cases Undergoing Misoprostol Induced Mid Trimester Abortions	Objective: To compare cases of previous caesarean cases with non-caesarean for complications in Misoprostol Induced Mid Trimester abortions Study Design: A prospective cohort study design. Place and Duration of Study: This study was conducted at Combined Military Hospital (CMH) Nowshera, from Jan 2014 to Jun 2015. Patient and Methods: This is a comparative study of two cohorts. One of the cohorts, labeled as 'A' included cases (n=30) of at least one previous caesarean delivery and other cohort labeled as 'B' were normal cases (n=76) with no uterine scars either from previous caesarean delivery or any other surgery. Both these cohorts were admitted to CMH Nowshera for Misoprostol Induced Mid Trimester (MI-MT) abortions. Indications for abortion varied from case to case. Comparison between the two cohorts was made for complications including (1) Heavy blood loss (2) Severe pain (3) Failure of Induction. A cut off value was set for heavy blood loss (>1000 ml), while severity of pain was a subjective perception, categorizing into mild to moderate and severe. Failure of induction was considered after 72 hours. Chi square and Fisher's exact tests were performed to test the null hypothesis of no significant difference between the two cohorts for each of the three complications. Effect of two confounding variables (i) Maternal age and (ii) Parity was also investigated. ANOVA was performed to find out a significant difference between categories of maternal age and parity within each cohort. Results: Chi square and Fisher's exact tests showed a significant difference (p-value<0.05) between the two cohorts for all the three complications of MI-MT abortions. Incidence of heavy blood loss, severe pain and failure of induction were significantly higher in cohort 'A' that comprised of previous caesarean cases. Conclusion: This study emphasized the need for more sensitive and careful management of cases admitted for termination of pregnancies with history of previous caesarean sections. © 2019, Army Medical College. All rights reserved.	2019	Iftikhar, B.;Khanum, R.;Akram, N.A.;Nasreen, S.;Ibrar, F.;Fatah, A.	Pakistan Armed Forces Medical Journal	
Postpartum Urinary Retention After Vaginal Delivery; [Retensi Urin Pada Pasien Pascasalin Pervaginam]	Objective : To determine the incidence of postpartum urinary retention (PUR) after vaginal delivery and to specify any obstetric risk factors of PUR. Methods : Case-control study. Six hours after vaginal delivery, urethral catheterisation was implemented for estimation of post-void residual bladder and diagnosis PUR. Patient data, including age, gestational age, body mass index, parity, mode of delivery, labour duration, perineal laceration or episiotomy, and fetal birth weight, were compared between women with and those without PUR to determine which obstetric factors that develop PUR. Results : Of the 365 participants recruited, 38 (10,67%) had PUR: 33 (9,27%) with covert PUR and 5 (1,4%) with overt PUR. Women with perineal laceration or episiotomy (p<0,05), instrument-assisted delivery (p<0,05), first stage duration of labor more than 12 hours (p<0,05), second stage duration of labor more than one hour in multipara (p=0,041), and fetal birth weight more than 3800 grams (p<0,05) more prone to develop PUR. Conclusions : The incidence of PUR were associated with several obstetric risk factors: perineal laceration or episiotomy, instrument-assisted delivery, first stage duration of labour more than twelve hours, second stage duration of labour more than one hour in multipara, and fetal birth weight more than 3800 grams. © Kozin S.V., 2019.	2019	Bayu, B.;Lengkong, R.;Wantania, J.	Indonesian Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology	10.32771/inajog.v7i2.833
Risk Of Adhesive Bowel Obstruction After Abdominal Surgery. A National Cohort Study Of 665,423 Danish Women	Background: Adhesive bowel obstruction is associated with considerable morbidity and mortality, but the magnitude of the risk is debated. Method: In a national cohort of all Danish women with an abdominal operation (N = 665,423) between 1977 and 2013, the risk of adhesive bowel obstruction was assessed by Cox multiple regression. Covariates were the number of abdominal operations, the surgical methods, the anatomical site involved, and the calendar year. Results: In the cohort, 1.4% experienced an episode of adhesive bowel obstruction. The risk increased 33–43% during the study period, was lower after gynecological and obstetrical procedures compared to gastrointestinal (HR 0.36 [0.34–0.38]), lower after laparoscopic compared to laparotomic surgery (HR 0.51 [0.48–0.54]) and increased proportionally after each additional operation. Conclusions: The risk of adhesive bowel obstruction after abdominal operations depends on the site of earlier operations, the method of access and the number of earlier operations. © 2018 Elsevier Inc.; In this nation-wide cohort study the risk of adhesive bowel obstruction increased after each abdominal surgery, was highest after colorectal and lowest after gynecological surgery and cesarean section. The risk was lower after laparoscopy than after laparotomy. The risk of adhesive bowel obstruction can be predicted by the anatomical site of the disease, the surgical method used, and the number of previous surgeries. © 2018 Elsevier Inc.	2019	Norrbom, C.;Steding-Jessen, M.;Agger, C.T.;Osler, M.;Krabbe-Sorensen, M.;Settnes, A.;Nilas, L.;Loekkegaard, E.C.L.	American Journal of Surgery	10.1016/j.amjsurg.2018.10.035
Maternal And Fetal Outcomes In Pregnancy Complicated By Fibroid Uterus	Introduction: Fibroids are most common benign tumours of female reproductive tract. Fibroid in pregnancy is associated with complications like preterm labor, malpresentations, etc. Aims and Objectives: The aim of this study is to the incidence, clinical presentation, maternal and fetal outcomes among pregnant women with Leiomyoma and its management. Materials and Methods: This is a prospective observational study in Department of OBG, Adichunchanagiri hospital, from Jan 2017 to July 2019. Parameters such as age, parity, size and type of fibroid, mode of delivery and perinatal outcomes were analysed using Epi info software. Results: Out of 5043 deliveries conducted, 30 cases were detected with fibroid during pregnancy, incidence being 0.5%. Majority belonged to age group 25-29 years (50%), 18 (60%) were Primigravida, 26(86.66%) underwent LSCS,4(13.33%) underwent preterm vaginal delivery,16.66% had malpresentation, 2(15%) underwent myomectomy, and 6(20%) had PROM,5(16.6%) were infertility treated, 20(66.66%) had pain abdomen,3(10%) had PPH, and Abruption in 3.3%, IUGR in 16%, LBW in 26.66% of deliveries. Conclusion: Pregnancy with fibroid is considered as high risk. Timely diagnosis and management of antepartum, intrapartum, postpartum complications with good neonatal care leads to successful outcome. Caesarean myomectomy in selected cases can prove beneficial. © 2019 Published by Innovative Publication.	2019	Bhat, P.;Patel, A.;Pukale, R.S.	Indian Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology Research	10.18231/j.ijogr.2019.095
Pharmacologic Therapy In Postpartum Pelvic Pain Management	Women’s perception on childbirth experience is frequently related to pain struggle, regardless the type of birth. We aimed to present our Department’s experience on pharmacologically treating postpartum related pain. We developed a 6 months retrospective, descriptive study which included a number of 305 patients. Two sample patients were formed depending on the type of birth. In the sample of vaginal delivery a correlation between episiotomy and Paracetamol consumption was found (Pearson correlation of 0.238). In the sample of cesarean section births, for Acupan, Ketoprofen and Algifen the correlations with epidural anesthesia are negative and statistically significant at the 99.9% confidence level. © 2018 SYSCOM 18 S.R.L. All Rights Reserved.	2018	Matei, A.;Ionescu, C.;Dimitriu, M.;Ilinca, C.;Gheorghiu, D.;Banacu, M.;Calin, D.;Ples, L.;Neacsu, A.;Rosu, G.	Revista de Chimie	10.37358/rc.18.12.6805
Postpartum Regular Massage On Lacrimal Sac To Prevent Neonatal Dacryocystitis; [产后常规按摩泪囊预防新生儿泪囊炎]	                             AIM: To early massage lacrimal sac to prevent and reduce the neonatal dacryocystitis. METHODS: We collected 4 048 cases of neonatal, there were 2 650 cases of natural birth including 5 300 eyes and 1 398 cases of Cesarean section including 2 796 eyes. There were 2 131 cases with preventive massage on lacrimal sac including 1 396 cases in natural labor, 2 792 eyes, and 735 cases in cesarean delivery, 1 470 eyes. Then, we determined whether neonatal dacryocystitis occurrence in the observation period. RESULTS: After preventive massage on lacrimal sac, there were 104 cases of neonatal dacryocystitis that included 68 cases of natural labor, 75 eyes and 36 cases of cesarean delivery, 47 eyes; 140 cases of neonatal dacryocystitis that included 49 cases of natural labor, 57 eyes and 91 cases of cesarean delivery, 148 eyes, in the neonatal without massage. In the comparison of preventive massage group with control group, there were significant differences of the incidence of neonatal dacryocystitis(χ                               2                             =32.141, P<0.01). CONCLUSION: The preventative massage on lacrimal sac significantly reduce the incidence of neonatal dacryocystitis.                          Copyright 2018 by the IJO Press.	2018	Jiang, X.-P.;Zhao, M.;Guo, Q.-J.;Yan, X.-Y.;Ge, J.	International Eye Science	10.3980/j.issn.1672-5123.2018.4.43
Evaluation Of Adherence To French Guidelines Concerning The Information Of The Women Having A Scarred Uterus On Their Mode Of Delivery; [Évaluation Du Suivi Des Recommandations Concernant L'Information Des Patientes Ayant Un Utérus Cicatriciel Sur Leur Mode D'Accouchement]	Objective To evaluate adherence of obstetricians from our maternity to French practice guidelines concerning information to give to pregnant patients with a history of scarred uterus. Materials and methods Observational retrospective study performed on medical files from June to August 2014 and concerning women with a scarred uterus that gave live-birth after 37 weeks of gestation. Information of patients had to concern the risks of a history of caesarean, the benefits and risks of the various delivery modes. Results On 758 deliveries, 77 cases were studied: 48 patients were followed up from the beginning of pregnancy, 23 from the 2nd trimester and 6 were not followed. Among patients followed from the beginning, no data was written on medical file concerning information that should to be given in immediate post-partum, in preconception counseling, and at the beginning of pregnancy about the risks of scarred uterus and the mode of delivery. In the 8th month, information about benefits and risks of the planned delivery mode was noticed in 45 % of files. Conclusion The information that need in theory to be given to the patients with scarred uterus appeared little or insufficiently noticed on medical files; which can be due either to an inaccurate information, or to a lack of transcription of the information nevertheless given. A check-list in obstetrical file would help to systematize the information to provide in scarred uterus patients. © 2016	2016	Aubert, M.;Heckenroth, H.;Guidicelli, B.;Cravello, L.;d'Ercole, C.;Courbiere, B.	Revue Sage - Femme	10.1016/j.sagf.2016.10.003
Epidural Anaesthesia Failure In Women In Labour After The Indication Of Caesarean; [Fallo De La Anestesia Epidural En Mujeres De Parto Trasla Indicación De Cesárea]	Objective: To demonstrate the incidence and causes responsible for the failure of epidural analgesia for urgent caesarean delivery when indicated. Method: We conducted a prospective observational study collecting data from emergency cesarean section during 19 months between 2010 and 2011 in a university hospital. There were performed 4,120 deliveries including 542 caesarean 502 of them were urgent and semi-urgent and 40 scheduled, these latter have been excluded from the study due to having spinal anesthesia (AR) directly applied. In the first group there were 12 cases of failure (EA) and not detected in 490 (failure rate 2.44%) . The control group was a random sample of 60 patients, extracted to obtain sufficient statistical power, they were obtained from the control group of 490 cases, in order to compare them with the group of the 12 cases where the failure was observed. Results: the variables observed that may be related to the failure are gestational age in weeks, technical difficulties, metameric level prior to incision, the total dose of AL, administered rescue bolus dose, epidural infusion rate, analgesic quality at 5 cm dilated, AL dilution used. Conclusions: the variables found in our study related to epidural analgesia failure, are the technical aspects and LA doses administered and its effect on the patient, having an incidence of 2.4% failure. © 2015 Academia de Ciencias Médicas de Bilbao. All rights reserved.	2015	Varón, V.;Gondra, R.;Grijalba, L.;Lorrio, S.;Tardón, L.;Bilbo, A.;Aguilera-Celorrio, L.	Gaceta Medica de Bilbao	
Delivery Mode, Duration Of Labor, And Cord Blood Adiponectin, Leptin, And C-Reactive Protein: Results Of The Population-Based Ulm Birth Cohort Studies	BACKGROUND: Numerous studies have reported associations between delivery mode and health outcomes in infancy and later life. Previous smaller studies indicated a relationship between delivery mode and newborn inflammation potentially constituting a mediating factor. We aimed to determine the influence of delivery mode and duration of labor on cord blood concentrations of adiponectin, leptin, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP).;METHODS: In the Ulm SPATZ Health Study, 934 singleton newborns and their mothers were recruited during their hospital stay in the University Medical Center Ulm, Southern Germany, from 04/2012-05/2013. Inflammatory biomarkers were measured by ELISAs (n = 836). Delivery mode was analyzed categorically (elective cesarean (reference), active labor delivery: emergency cesarean, assisted vaginal, and spontaneous vaginal); duration of labor continuously. Following log-transformation, linear regression was used to estimate geometric means ratios (GMR) adjusted for potential confounders for the effects of delivery mode and duration of labor on each biomarker separately. Independent replication was sought in the similarly conducted Ulm Birth Cohort Study recruited from 11/2000-11/2001.;RESULTS: Individually, active labor delivery modes as well as increasing duration of labor were associated with higher leptin and hs-CRP concentrations. After mutual adjustment, the associations with delivery modes were attenuated but those for duration of labor remained statistically significant (GMR (95%CI) 1.10 (1.00; 1.21) and 1.15 (1.04; 1.27) for leptin and hs-CRP per hour of labor, respectively). No significant adjusted associations were observed between delivery modes and adiponectin concentrations. These findings were replicated in an independent birth cohort study.;CONCLUSIONS: Cord blood leptin and hs-CRP concentrations were associated with duration of labor rather than delivery mode. Further research is warranted to investigate these associations with additional cytokines involved in inflammatory response to delineate the inflammatory profile. Subsequently, research on determinants of these associations and their role in development of chronic disease is needed.	2016	Logan, CA;Thiel, L;Bornemann, R;Koenig, W;Reister, F;Brenner, H;Rothenbacher, D;Genuneit, J	PLoS ONE [Electronic Resource]	10.1371/journal.pone.0149918
When Are Pregnant Patients Receiving Tranexamic Acid During Delivery Hospitalization In The United States?	OBJECTIVE: The World Health Organization recommends tranexamic acid (TXA) in the management of postpartum hemorrhage (PPH). However, the role of TXA in PPH prevention and the optimal timing of TXA administration remain unknown. Our objective was to describe the timing of TXA administration, differences in timing of TXA administration by mode of delivery, and current trends in TXA administration in the U.S.;STUDY DESIGN: We conducted a descriptive study of trends in TXA administration using the Cerner Real-World DatabaseTM. We identified 1,544,712 deliveries occurring at greater than 24 weeks gestation from January 1, 2016 to February 21, 2023. Demographic data were collected including gestational age, mode of delivery, and co-morbidities. The timing of TXA administration and differences in TXA timing by mode of delivery were also collected.;RESULTS: In our cohort, 21,433 patients (1.4%) received TXA. The majority of patients who received TXA were between ages 25 and 34 years old (55.3%), White (60.7%), and delivered between 37 weeks and 41 weeks and 6 days (81.4%). The TXA group had a higher prevalence of medical co-morbidities including obesity (32.9% versus 19.0%, p<0.00001), pre-eclampsia (19.6% versus 6.81%, p<0.00001), and pre-gestational diabetes (3.27% versus 1.36%, p<0.00001). Among women who received TXA, 15.4% received it within 3 hours before delivery. Among patients who received TXA after delivery, 23.6% received TXA within 3 hours after delivery while 35.7% received TXA between 10 and 24 hours after delivery. 80.4% of patients who received TXA before delivery had a cesarean delivery.;CONCLUSION: While TXA is most commonly administered after delivery, many patients are receiving TXA prior to delivery in the United States without clear evidence to guide the timing of administration. A randomized trial is urgently needed to determine the safety and efficacy of TXA when administered prior to delivery. Copyright Thieme. All rights reserved.	2024	Whitley, J;Miran, SA;Ma, P;Saade, G;Roberts, I;Ahmadzia, H	American Journal of Perinatology	10.1055/a-2353-0832
Performing Red Reflex Eye Examinations Increases The Rate Of Neonatal Conjunctivitis	AIM: Red reflex eye examinations often require opening the eyelids, risking infection. We evaluated links between this procedure and neonatal conjunctivitis.;METHODS: We divided 18 872 neonates of more than 35 weeks of gestation into two birth periods, 2008-2009 and 2010-2011, before and after red reflex examinations were carried out by our facility. The rates of clinical conjunctivitis, bacterial conjunctivitis and bacterial growth percentage were compared between the two periods.;RESULTS: The 2010-2011 period included more Caesarean deliveries and longer lengths of stay (LOS) than the 2008-2009 period. The clinical conjunctivitis rate increased significantly during 2010-2011 (p = 0.029), but the bacterial conjunctivitis and bacterial growth percentages did not differ between the two periods. Variables that were independently and significantly associated with clinical conjunctivitis included being born in 2010-2011, with an odds ratio (OR) of 1.22, male gender (OR 1.31) and LOS (OR 1.19). Bacterial conjunctivitis was associated with vaginal delivery (OR 3.65), males delivered by Caesarean (OR 2.68) and LOS (OR 1.37).;CONCLUSION: Clinical conjunctivitis was significantly associated with the later study period, male gender and LOS. Conjunctival swab sampling increased significantly following the implementation of red reflex examinations, but without changes in the bacterial conjunctivitis rate and the bacterial growth percentage. Copyright ©2015 Foundation Acta Paediatrica. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.	2015	Ulanovsky, I;Shnaider, M;Geffen, Y;Smolkin, T;Mashiach, T;Blazer, S;Makhoul, IR	Acta Paediatrica	10.1111/apa.13170
